---
date: 2022-04-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd3
---
# Session 7

The tunnel continued through the earth until, speared through with spinal column pillars and arteries. Along the surface of one of these arteries, the party encountered the face of Constanze, who asked them how they were enjoying the disc so far. Their answer had not changed since the last time they had spoken, though Constanze seemed to be under the impression that they had not yet interacted. She soon revealed that she was a different Constanze, giving only the explanation that she had so much to keep track of across the disc. AIDA took the opportunity to ask if she was affiliated with the cult of Purity which the warlock denied. Not long after, Constanze took her leave, allowing the party to continue to the end of the tunnel.

A number of eggs were gestating there. When Eve approached, two creatures reminiscent of the parasitic worm they had slain though with arms and legs blocked her way. She explained that the group had no intention of harming the eggs and told them about Lou. This infuriated the creatures, who had grown to hate the noise of Lou grunting for parasite worms. In fact, they would have left to find another nest were it not impossible to move the eggs they guarded. Eve offered to care for those eggs which they could not take with them and the creatures agreed, departing as soon as they could.

With no more of the tunnel to explore, the party returned to the surface where they found Lou waist-deep in the corpse of the parasite worm. They had managed to recover a number of specimens from the worm and were intrigued by the eggs the party was carrying. Since the party figured that being allowed to keep even a small number of the eggs at Fort Zeta was unlikely, they gave the majority of the eggs to Lou to care for.

In acknowledgement of their assistance, Lou extended an offer to Scrimblo. They had extensive familiarity with extracting parasites from their host animals and could likely remove the Flesh within him. Although Scrimblo was wary of having anyone digging around in his insides, he consented to at least a preliminary examination. Lou concluded that it may not be possible to remove the Flesh through conventional means at all, as it had been deeply entwined with his soul. AIDA promised him that she would ask the Lord of Flowers for His assistance on the matter. However, Lou was still called upon for their skills in the end, as Mary took on one of the parasites to augment her defences.

Back at Fort Zeta, Eve petitioned for permission to raise the parasites, trading on the idea that they were in a sense natural enemies of the Flesh. Nazena was not thrilled about the prospect but she was willing to cordon off some land in the vicinity of the Fort for their use. With their immediate surroundings no longer a mystery, the party took some time to train and relax, hoping that their requisitions from overdisc. AIDA and Mary attended to their devotions, Eva made connections among the Coalition, Scrimblo looked into the nature of his condition, and Eve began cultivating the eggs.

During this time, the matter of the Priest of Purity came to a head. The resources expended keeping him imprisoned were not yielding any useful information in return. Eva made a final effort to push him on the identity of the leader of the cult. He told her that he had not been seen in some time, as he was communing with the Flesh of the world. In his place, an upper echelon of priests - including himself - were presiding over the members of the congregation. As this suggested that he indeed possessed knowledge that might be useful to the Coalition, Eva changed tack and advocated for a different fate for the prisoner. A number of the parasites were known to reduce the mental capacity of their hosts, which could be used to make the priest more susceptible to spells that might compel him to be more forthcoming.

It was at this point that Eve, who had first wanted to spare the priest’s life and then, when Eva suggested this horrifying plan, attempted to kill him, stormed out of the holding cells. Out of concern for her obvious distress, Mary and Scrimblo followed her out and attempted to ask her what was troubling her. Eve’s answers were clearly meant to dodge an actual conversation about the matter and she claimed that she was returning to the party’s quarters. In actuality, she left the fort entirely to head to the Barrier Mountains.

Nazena was willing to seek authorization from Felicity to enact Eva’s plan, though she suspected there would be some debate about whether taking such an action would be considered an unacceptable breach of ethics by the wider Coalition forces, were they ever to learn of it. Their discussion was cut short by the immanent arrival of supplies through Gate Zeta. Those of the party with ranged capabilities were enlisted to assist in the defense of the fort against the Flesh in the wake of the massive surge of magical energy. Once the tide of Flesh had been stemmed, the party went to retrieve the items they had asked for. Only when Eve’s delivery was unclaimed did the party realize that she was no longer on the premises.

AIDA used sending and a quick scrying to ensure that Eve was safe beyond the walls of Zeta. Eve, who had stopped on the outskirts of the werebear village, assured her that she was fine, though she would not be returning to the fort until the next day. AIDA was not particularly pleased with this state of affairs, but Eve was the only member of the party capable of long-distance, speedy travel and thus there was little to be done about it.

High in the Barrier Mountains, Eve was stirred from her internal conflict by the unexpected sound of singing. She had not noticed it earlier but the snow that had pilled up around the werebear village had been cleared and at least one of them was awake. The werebear introduced himself as Skald, the druid of the village, and explained that the song was a means for them to keep in touch with the other werebear villages across the disc. He invited Eve in from the cold, which she accepted. For a time, curiosity overcame her and she asked Skald about the status of the werebears. So far, they had not been troubled by the spread of the Flesh, though they worried for others. Of particular note was the presence of a number of vampires to the northwest of the mountains that concerned Skald greatly since their castle had been overtaken by the Flesh. Aside from the general peril of the disc, the werebears were doing relatively well. They required no assistance from Fort Zeta, though Skald impressed upon Eve that they would welcome company from time to time.

In the morning, Eve thanked Skald for his hospitality and returned to the fort. The party was relieved to see her unharmed and surprised by the news Eve brought with her, but the druid still refused to explain her actions the previous day. Regardless, AIDA wanted to resolve the interrupted matter of the priest, preferably by means of a Zone of Truth spell rather than the use of the parasites. Before they returned to him, Eve received her scrolls of Sending and made an attempt to contact Jeremiah. To everyone’s shock, the message reached its recipient. Jeremiah told the party that he was to the northwest of the fort, paralyzed from the waist down by circumstances he didn’t have the space to elaborate on and with his spellbook destroyed.

All other plans for the day were quickly discarded. The party brought Jeremiah’s message to the attention of Felicity, who immediately set a number of people to work preparing the Javelin for its first flight. As Jeremiah was traveling to Eoril on the ice, it was assumed that he was likely at the very edge of the disc, or not far from it. At most, it would be a two-day journey to reach him, which left the party plenty of time to talk about recent events...

Next
[Session 08](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%203%20-%20A%20Wasteland%20of%20Flesh/Session%2008.md)