---
date: 2023-05-28
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd3
---
# Session 34

At the party's request, Volkmarr set a few rangers at the doors of the lodge to ensure no one came in or out. Eve spoke with the servant who had found Ukra to get a better idea of what had transpired. The servant shakily recounted the events of the day, notably that while he was sequestered to deliberate on his choice of successor she was tasked with bringing him meals. He had returned the tray she had brought his lunch on but not the one for his evening meal.

Mary took the opportunity to examine the corpse. Aside from a dart in his throat there seemed to be no other injuries and there was a curious lack of blood from the wound. She also noted that the ceremonial hunting horn kept in his office was gone.

In order to prevent concern from the people of Cardia the party asked Volkmarr to move up the celebratory feast with the excuse that Ukra had fallen ill and was being magically tended to in the interim. Since Eve was an herbalist, she was left behind in the rooms to "tend to Ukra" in search for clues, while Mary went out to speak with potential culprits, starting with the latecoming contender.

Disguised as a servant, Mary made her way to the contenders' table to eavesdrop. There was a general air of concern as they turned over the news about the delay, with the latecomer Daphne seeming most deeply concerned. Using the excuse of topping up her glass to speak with Daphne, Mary pointed out that she seemed troubled and Daphne explained that she was simply surprised by Ukra's sudden illness, as they had gone hunting rather recently. Mary pushed a little further to ask why she had been so much later than her fellow contenders, learning that Daphne had captured her quarry (a twelve-point stag) alive and brought it back to the stables.

Back in Ukra's office, Eve took a quick turn of the room. She noticed that rather than a glass window, a sheet of leather thin enough to let in light was present in the room. The finishing nails and glue around the attendant opening were undisturbed but a pinprick hole had been pierced through the leather. Presumably, this was the entry point for the dart... but curiously it seemed that it had been punctured from the inside. Likewise of interest was a bottle of liquor and two glasses set out in the small seating area, considering that Ukra was supposed to be isolated in the run up to the ceremony.

Mary returned to the office and traded information with Eve. Hitting upon a possible means to see what he had been doing while sequestered, Mary attempted to cast Blood Cartography but the spell failed. Mary wondered at why, since it should work with the blood of any corpse if performed correctly. She began to suspect that, perhaps, Ukra was not dead.

She stepped back out into the hall to speak with the poisoner she had met earlier in the day. She asked if she had an antitoxin that would neutralize a potion that feigned death. Stella did and, putting together the strange schedule of the night, asked if this had something to do with Ukra, even offering to provide more specific help with the poison. Mary said that it was but she wanted to try the generic antidote first. Administering it had no effect.

While Mary was gone, Eve left the lodge in a disguise of her own to examine the other side of the window. There was no sign of any disturbances in the area around this side of the lodge but Eve noticed that the details of the view outside the window did not match what was actually outside. She realized that there were a few feet of unaccounted for space between what were two adjacent rooms inside the lodge. She was distracted from her task for a few moments by a commotion at the stables, which she went to investigate.

The two grooms were happy to prevail on Eve for some assistance when she appeared. The stag that Daphne had brought back had been agitated by something and they had been having difficulty settling it. Eve was able to calm it and even ask it a few questions about what it had seen but it didn't know anything that would be of use. The grooms thanked Eve for her help and asked if they had missed anything interesting during the ceremony. Eve explained that there had been a delay so Ukra's successor had not yet been chosen. They confided in her that Daphne was by far the favourite to win, as it was well-known that she was his protégé.

Eve returned to Ukra's chambers to find Mary in the midst of trying to work out the matter of Ukra's body. Eve noticed that the inside of Ukra's beak was more consistent with a younger aarakocra and, after dispelling any magic on the body, realized that the corpse as a whole was much younger than it should be. Mary was by now certain that the body was a decoy but the party could not figure out a compelling reason for Ukra to fake his own death.

Using what she had seen outside as a guide, Eve uncovered a secret passage in the wall that terminated about a hundred feet south of the lodge, just beyond the treeline of the forest. Along the passage, the hunting horn had been dropped, which firmly eliminated theft as the motive for the crime. The faint impression of boots was still visible in the flesh outside, leading the party in a wide arc back toward Cardia before ending.

Having reached the end of the trail of physical clues, the party returned to the lodge to speak with Volkmarr. He was able to confirm that the horn they had found was authentic and shed some light on whom Ukra might have been meeting for drinks. Both Daphne and her father, Eleazar, were close friends of Ukra, but Daphne was on the hunt at the time and there was no sign of Eleazar at the ceremony. This was notable, given his daughter's participation, and Mary quickly pointed out that, as a fleshcrafter, he had the capability to cut the footprints they had followed outside short.

With these compelling suspicions in mind the party headed to Eleazar's workshop. His coworkers said that he had left a few hours ago for the lodge, making his absence even more conspicuous. Eve cast a quick scrying to determine his location and saw that he was pacing back and forth in a strange, dimly lit space carved out of the Flesh where he was currently embroiled in an argument with a captive Ukra. Eleazar was insisting that bringing the party into the Marrow Woods and having them destroy the Heart of the Forest was a short-sighted and reactionary response. The Flesh was, of course, a danger to the disc but the Heart was different. Ukra was surprised he even knew about his intentions with regard to the party until Eleazar admitted that Daphne had mentioned it to him.

At this point, it was obvious what had happened. Eleazar, panicked over this revelation, had kidnapped Ukra to prevent him from bringing the party to the Heart. The body was a fleshcrafted, inanimate duplicate left to obfuscate what had happened. As such, no one had been harmed, which made the party more willing to give Eleazar's motives the benefit of the doubt and be more lenient in their approach to him. They explained everything to Volkmarr back at the lodge before Mary suggested they go to the endpoint of the footsteps to confront Eleazar.

Mary sliced into the flesh using her blade of disaster, revealing a small tunnel into the ground. A few half-hearted defences had been erected along the path but there was nothing that posed any real threat. By the time Eve and Mary reached Eleazar and Ukra, it was clear that their argument had been going in circles for a while now.

The party assured Eleazar that they were not here to attack him and attempted to talk him down. For their benefit (since he had no inkling that Eve had heard him explain his position via scrying), he explained that he felt the need to protect the Heart. It was inextricably bound to the Marrow Woods and was a fundamental part of Cardia's society, to the point that Eleazar was concerned its removal might destroy the town's way of life altogether. Ukra, for his part, said that while he had intended to ask the party to destroy the Heart, he believed that its death would kill the Flesh across the disc.

Eve said that while the party were no allies of the Flesh, it would be irresponsible to remove the Heart by one person's unilateral decision, given its unique situation. Mary chimed in to point out that the loss of the Heart was unlikely to destroy the Flesh since it had infected Auril itself and, besides, they had not come to Cardia with the intention of destroying anything at all but rather to gain information. Of course, neither of them felt that kidnapping Ukra was a reasonable thing to do even in light of Eleazar's fears. They told Eleazar to surrender and they could resume this discussion back at the lodge.

Eleazar, Ukra, the party, Volkmarr and his rangers all returned to the hunting lodge through the secret passage to prevent the general populace from realized what exactly had transpired that night. Ukra, though a bit late, returned to the main hall to invest Daphne as his successor, allaying any worries that might have been starting to take hold. Once that was done, Daphne joined those in the know and - after scolding her father for his rash actions - shared her own perspective. Despite Ukra being her mentor, she didn't fully agree with his position. Gathering material evidence about the connection between the Heart and the malignant Flesh was paramount before making any decision about it and so, in the morning, the party and a small force from Cardia would set out to do just that.

The party returned to the inn where they had been staying only to find Constanze amiably chatting with the Seer once again. She excused herself at the party's approach, leaving them no opportunity to determine what her interest in the Seer was, though it was obvious at this point that she was not simply hoping to talk of "recent events" with it. Eve shared their next destination with the Seer and tried to gently inquire into whether or not the Seer would be willing to leave the heart it was searching for to Cardia if the people of the city felt they needed it more than it did. It was not.

Next
[[Recaps/Auril Adventures/Campaign 3 - A Wasteland of Flesh/Session 35|Session 35]]