---
date: 2023-06-11
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd3
---
# Session 36

As the adventurers had learned during their investigation, around and beneath the lodge lay a series of passages that had been used by the bandits who had founded Cardia. One of these tunnels led to a vault where the objects of many successful heists had been stashed and, among them, was a serving tray embossed with a stylized but functionally accurate map of the lands of Eoril prior to the coming of the Flesh. Ukra handed this over to the party for their consultation. When compared against the map they themselves had been navigating by, it was clear that the major change in the mountains of the disc was the fallen peak in the Gods Grave range. The initial infection point for the planet was likely deep within the earth below it; when the time came to expel the Flesh from the disc, the party now knew where they might start.

After bidding farewell to Ukra, the party set out for the plateau to the north. On their approach they saw a small group of wyverns harrying the kobolds clearing out Jeremiah's shack. The lead wyvern was being ridden by a kobold wielding a lance adorned with a familiar set of trinkets - a transfigured Rend. Rend was keen to battle the party again and closed the distance to engage them. 

Through a combination of dispelling Rend's hold on the wyverns and focusing their efforts on the kobold it was possessing, the party was able to defeat it. Unlike their last encounter, they were all able to resist its compulsion to take it up but still the sentient weapon slipped through their grasp, teleporting away.

Errol, who was among the kobolds being harrassed by Rend, thanked them for their intervention and gave his condolences for Jeremiah's death. The old wizard had left him some instructions for their arrival but Errol admitted that he was hesitant to follow them as they would be in violation of the long-held traditions of the kobolds. Understanding this, the party simply asked if they might be allowed to look over Jeremiah's things in the event he had explained himself there.

The shack had been partially dismantled but Mary spotted a piece of parchment written in code. Using Jeremiah's staff - which he had been using solely as a battlestaff - Scrimblo found that he could read the text. Jeremiah had left a brief message stating that Nimbus had some hand in the creation of the storm above the plateau and that more than weather was at work. That said, it was, fundamentally, an aspect of the natural word and thus Eve suspected she might be able to uncover its nature by communing with it. She would need a few hours to prepare the spell so the adventurers took the opportunity to attempt to locate Rend. A quick scry revealed that it had travelled the length of the disc in the blink of an eye and found its way into the hands of a fire giant.

During the ensuing downtime, Errol mentioned offhand that the party could beseech the storm in the way the kobolds did. It would be a dangerous endeavour but a small religious site had been erected at the top of the highest point in the mesa where the kobolds left their offerings. Those who sought the storm were tested and, if found worthy, allowed to pass from that place unharmed with its blessing. The party decided it was worth the risk and so they travelled a few miles north to the shrine, accompanied by Errol. Following a gruelling climb, the party planted the ceremonial lightning rod laid on the altar in the ground and waited for the storm to take notice. Traditionally, a supplicant would open their mind to the elements and, though Errol said that it was likely unnecessary for the party, Eve insisted that observing the ritual was important.

Her diligence was rewarded with a few insights, namely that a building of some sort resided at the heart of the storm and within it, a powerful celestial. It was then that the Mother of Dragons turned its attention to them. Almost a dozen successive lightning strikes ran through the lightning rod, manifesting as living golems of lightning that would serve to determine their worthiness in combat.

As lesser aspects of the storm's power, the party was able to overcome the trial without sustaining more than injuries but nonetheless their strength suggested that the Mother of Dragons was a formidable thing indeed. Errol, satisfied by the party's observance of the ritual, offered this much of what Jeremiah had told him: the storm was a construct. He was not certain that what the construct protected was worth the danger of approaching the storm - all those who had attempted it either died or were never seen again - but if the party believed themselves able, Errol would not stop them.

Curious about Nimbus' aim in creating such a powerful construct, the party opted to fly toward it on the wind to at least get a look at it. Eve was able to ease the journey by gentling the galeforce winds at the heart of the storm but by no measure was it an easy approach. Surrounded by the darkest of the clouds, at the very heart of the storm, was a massive construct of metal and magic in the shape of a dragon. Its wingspan was enough to encompass a few houses worth of space and the symbol of Gond on its forehead all but confirmed Nimbus' involvement. Both the cleric and their creation noticed the party's presence and Nimbus cautioned them against getting any closer to what they called their vault. The dragon corroborated this by nearly frying the party with a beam of pure energy that they avoided only by making a hasty retreat.

Back in the relatively clearer skies surrounding the dragon, Nimbus offered further explanation. They had constructed this vault as their contingency against the Flesh, as many of their fellow Hands of Mystral had. It had been made to contain a cache of technology that would aid in the restoration of civilization in the event that it fell entirely to the Flesh but in the intervening years Nimbus had lost control over the Mother of Storms. To ensure it would be protected against the Flesh, they had designed powerful defensive systems. They recommended the party not seek to enter the vault until they were certain they were ready to contend with it.

As such, the party felt it prudent to first capture Rend. As the wind blew, it took them three days to reach the Meteor Forge, but fortunately Rend was still present, if frustrated by the lack of any beings willing to fight it given the giants' focus on reaching the portal to the Elemental Plane of Fire. Once more, the party contended with Rend and, now knowing its tricks, Mary ensured that she was the one to lay her hand on the warhammer when its wielder was defeated. She turned its attempt at a charm back on the weapon and made it an offer. She was more than willing to aid it in slaking its lust for worthy opponents. Rend initially objected, refusing to submit to another will, but when Mary clarified that she was proposing a partnership, Rend reconsidered. It tentatively agreed, provided that Mary found and destroyed its creator in Aetra. After many weeks of adventuring, Mary was happy to accept a straightforward assassination.

On the party's route to the Forge, they had briefly crossed paths with the Javelin, which had been charting a course to Vitris. As they were presently on the southern half of the disc, the party decided to make a stop at Vitris on their way back to the mesa to see how the city had fared after its conflict with the Prince's city. Upon their arrival in Vitris, Scrimblo stayed in the city to speak with Yahg and the council while Eve and Mary continued on to the Prince's city to check on Vamir. Vamir, it turned out, had not been doing well since the party had fled the city with one of its most well-guarded treasures in their possession, being that he had been the one to allow them into the city. So incensed was he by their gall in returning to his very apartment that he summoned the Prince's lich to apprehend Mary and Eve.

Knowing better than to take their chances at half their usual number, Eve and Mary fled back to Vitris, though not before the lich had gotten a glimpse of them. He allowed them their escape with the promise of a swift and terrible vengeance to come now that he knew their faces.

Next
[[Recaps/Auril Adventures/Campaign 3 - A Wasteland of Flesh/Session 37|Session 37]]