---
date: "2024-01-07"
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd3
---
# Session 48

The winds that bore the party to the God's Grave Mountains were swift, called by the werebear watcher Senjana to whistle through the tunnels and find the one of hundreds that would take them to the Flesh at its heart. The thin passage that was revealed to the party was barely large enough for a child to pass through and as the stone gave way to flesh the tunnel became a bodily venule leading to a large internal cavity.

Embedded in the walls in a state of suspended animation were countless facsimiles of the denizens of Eoril, some of whom the party recognized from their time in Scrimblo, Agranic, and even Fort Zeta. The people of a whole disc seemed to be growing here. Among the throng were many, many Constanzes which one-by-one began to speak, raising their voices into an indistinguishable cacophony. Just when it seemed the sound would grew unbearable, they all stopped. The Heart of the Flesh beat once into the silence, heralding the arrival of Constanze. Unlike her siblings this Constanze did not appear to the party with a grin or an irreverant phrase. She was haggard, with dark bags like bruises under her eyes, and her face held the grim determination of a condemned man. She told the party that though they had come far, they would go no further.

Constanze wielded the tome of staff that had been artifacts of her position in the Hands of Mystral, of which she was the last. Though she summoned forth two yugoloths to aid her and brought the full power of a warlock at the apex of her power against the party, their careful preparation and their own skill saw them through. The apparition woman who had set out so long ago to destroy the Flesh finally fell, leaving nothing behind but a legacy of destruction.

Behind her, a protective sheet of bone like a ribcage barred their further progress. AIDA took the opportunity of the moment to seek divine intervention to restore the party to their full strength before venturing onward. Beyond the party found the true chambers of the heart, labyrinthine and spasmodically contracting in a dizzying manner with each step the party took. As they moved through the ventricles they heard a distant sound. It was hard to identify at first beyond its loudness but it became clear that something was drawing closer. When it stopped just on the far side of one of the tissue-thin walls of flesh it coalesced into a voice. It praised their boldness but pronounced their doom as it ordered Scrimblo, the flesh of its Flesh, to destroy them all. But Scrimblo was not compelled, having freed himself from its influence in the living woods of Cardia.

With a monumental rending of muscle the walls around them gave way not to empty space but to three faces. They resembled Constanze only in the way the flayed muscles of a face still held some imprint of the skin that had covered them. The battle against the Flesh was foremost a trial of endurance. Though the faces and the hideous tendrils that sprouted tumorously from their surfaces could be struck it seemed to do little to effect the mass that surrounded them. The eyes, however, being made of more delicate tissue, proved fruitful targets. Once they had shriveled in their sockets the true heart of Auril was exposed: a desiccated husk that must have been the body of Constanze millennia hence.

Though the party attacked with all they had, the Flesh was quick to reabsorb the corpse and sprout additional eyes to watch its opponents. The party required two more windows of opportunity to strike at the core, each time bought with their very blood. It was Scrimblo who struck the final blow, driving Rend into the husk's chest. Without this vital organ to feed its vast body the Flesh began to necrose but it had power enough for one last act. It drew the party's minds from their bodies to show them the truth.

Long before life had sprung forth to count the measures of passing time, there was nothingness between the spheres. Each plane contained multitudes of planets - a universe unto itself - but outside all these dwelt a body. This was what people spoke of when they imagined the ideal of perfection, though they could not know it. The body once sustained a mortal wound, marring its perfect form and each drop of blood spattered across the planes, seeding a strain of the Flesh.

By the time the Flesh could no longer hold its grip on the party's consciousnesses the heart was grey and decaying into clumps that soon would not resemble flesh at all. Secure in the knowledge that the infestation in the rest of Auril would follow, the party prepared to leave, but there was one last aspect of the Flesh to confront. The Seer, utterly wretched and clearly dying, had a last question for the party. It surmised that they had seen what it had seen in its years of staring out into the stars and so understood what it had once been. *It* understood what it had once been and what it lacked, thanks to their interference, giving it a mind with which to think and comprehend. Why, it asked, had they done such a thing? What blind cruelty had compelled them? AIDA told it the simple truth. They hadn't known. With this final twist of the knife, the Seer died, though it warned the party that the world was doomed, no matter that they had ripped the Flesh from its heart.

While the party was indisposed, in the death spasm of the Flesh the settlements of the disc faced their final challenge. Against the rising tide of Flesh Fort Zeta, Vitris, Cardia, and Aetra held their own, having both combat experience and knowledge of the Flesh in particular. Scrimblo was protected by its underground position and the aid of the Coalition in strengthening its borders. Agranic and the Holte estate, which were in greater turmoil after the party's influence, did not fare so well. The Traitor-Lords who had taken Bertram's place as rulers of the estate did not share his love of mortals and so the people were left to fend for themselves with disastrous results. Agranic was not so terribly devastated thanks to the restoration effort underway there and the timely intervention of some yugoloth mercenaries called by Kijenor, but it would need outside help to truly recover from the ordeal.

Yet despite all Eoril's losses a new day was dawning on Auril. The world was changed.

AIDA was the first to make plans for the uncertain future, telling her companions that she intended to remain on the disc to watch over the God's Grave from the fort she had consecrated to the Lord of Flowers, ensuring that the Flesh was truly gone. She extended an offer to Scrimblo to join her, as the two had become close friends over the course of their travels. Scrimblo was happy to help her, though he said that once the disc was stabilized he would be retiring his sword and settling down back in Scrimblo (town). Rend was NOT happy to hear this but it was pacified by being given to Luitpold, who could surely find it a suitable wielder on another plane.

Once they had bid their farewells, AIDA and Scrimblo departed, leaving Eve and Luitpold. Eve questioned the man about his plans and Luitpold cheerfully replied that he had no idea, as he had never seen a world successfully destroy the Flesh. Pursuant to that idea, Eve suggested that his help in expanding the Coalition's resources so that they could deal with the aftermath of its destruction would be welcome. Luitpold saw no reason to refuse so the two returned to Fort Zeta.

The mood at the fort was still tense but Eve's confirmation that the Flesh had been destroyed once and for all broke that tension into what became several days and nights of celebrations. While Luitpold met with Commander Jomora and Nazeena to discuss the first outlines of a trade agreement, Eve found herself at loose ends until she was visited by Nimbus. They congratulated the party's efforts and said that it had been quite an interesting couple months. Eve asked them if they and the other Hands had known about the origin of the Flesh that had been revealed to the party in its final moments and they admitted that they had, but it had not been much more than an interesting academic fact in the face of the end of the world.

Eve expressed concern that the sheer scale of the Flesh's existence meant Auril would never truly be safe but Nimbus assured her that reinfection was unlikely. Whatever small pockets remained on Auril would be rooted out and destroyed and the other spores on other planets had no means of bridging the space between the spheres. That did not, however, mean that the world was safe. The Seer was right that Auril still faced its doom. Without the presence of the Flesh, Marina Swan's protection was weakening and the dissolution of the Ice in Auril's fragile state would be a disaster which it would not survive. Nimbus was certain that the magic trickling into the world from the weakening of the Ice would allow them to invest one final Hand of Mystral who could strengthen the magics by recreating Marina's method but as it had for the wizard of the Hands of Mystral it would cost their life.

Eve was willing to carry out their plan with the caveat that she be allowed a month to set her affairs in order and say her goodbyes to her family at the hamlet. Nimbus agreed.

When Eve returned to the hamlet without Athena and Mary, all the residents of the manor knew what that meant. Under the pall of this bad news Eve shared what she had learned of the Flesh and told her old companions that she would be departing the plane to help destroy the rest of the Flesh where it lurked in the universe. Sal and Nova, being the more perceptive members of the family, concerned Eve later to ask what was really going on. Reluctantly, Eve explained and the two insisted that she couldn't simply throw her life away, especially since the hamlet had already lost Mary. They wanted to find another way and Eve could not deny them the attempt even though she was certain nothing would come of it. She spent the final month of her life travelling with them like in the old days, seeking out rumours of great magical power and even coming up against some of the remnants of the Flesh in the forgotten corners of the world.

When the time came, she bade them farewell and returned to the disc of Eoril. She made two final stops: one to Athena's tree on the mesa of the kobolds and the other to Mary's grave at the Mourning Fort. AIDA and Scrimblo were still hard at work, helping the citizens of Cyretta settle back into life on the material plane and aiding the Coalition when need be. The three spent a small handful of days together before Nimbus returned.

Before they performed the investment of power they gave Eve one last opportunity to refuse, as the procedure would have no effect if she was truly unwilling. Eve assured them that she wanted to do this and so she took on the mantle of the last Hand of Mystral. Through her the great power of the god of magic filled the empty core of Auril, reforming the molten core of the planet and all the many layers of earth that had originally lain at its heart. She excavated the rotting bones of the corpse inside it, ensuring that the world would be able to flourish once again, perhaps not in mere decades but in centuries and millennia. 

As the person who had been Eve began to fade into the Weave, her task completed, she found herself in the presence of Achuak, the last druid to stand in her place. They watched the last of the magic take hold together and Achuak told her that, if she wanted, she might leave a portion of her soul behind in the land. That lingering will would not really be Eve but it would be able to feel the sun on her face and the wind in her hair. Eve answered with a smile that she thought that sounded nice.

And so the tale of the Flesh was brought to a close but in truth the great stories of Auril had only just begun...