---
date: 2022-12-18
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd3
---
# Session 28

While her companions were still on their way home, Eve made landfall at the mesa to the far west. Likewise exhausted, she soon found herself contacted by Skald (with the assistance of his counterparts from the other two villages) in her dreams. He carefully asked about what happened. Eve was reluctant to talk about it but Skald was able to read between the lines of the little she did offer.

He said that Mary had come to speak with him and asked her if she would be willing to tell him - and by extension her friends - where she was. Eve flatly told him that she didn't want to see them. Skald withdrew not long after, worried enough about Eve to work on finding her location himself. However, it would likely take several days for him to divine it.

One of the residents of the village, a goliath named Lumir, offered to accompany Mary on her way back, considering that she would be travelling on the Flesh alone if they didn't. The two returned to the fort after a couple days walk and shared Skald's plan with AIDA and Scrimblo. AIDA regenerated Mary's eyes after obtaining her consent to do so and decided that, as they had to wait, she would go to Scrimblo (town) and gather information about the large eye they had seen to the north of the Meteor Forge. Scrimblo accompanied her but Mary declined, being too emotionally overwhelmed to do much but wait.

There was little to find but a passing ranger had given a brief report of the area. The immediate vicinity of the eye was filled with various sensory organs and an offshoot of the Cult of Purity had established a modest settlement nearby. Several days later, Skald contacted Lumir and informed them that he had located Eve at the mesa. They conveyed this to the rest of the party and they set out immediately on the airship.

The mood was grim on the way over, despite Lumir attempting to keep things light. As they approach the mesa, they encountered mist and fog that forced them to continue on foot. Eve's location was marked by a small grove that had stood out starkly against the rock. She sat at the edge of a small pool with the clockwork figure of Athena that Kijenor had made for her in her hands. At the party's arrival, she set it at the edge of the pool and a spectral version of Athena came forth from the water. It was obvious that she did not want to talk.

With Athena and various minor spirits of the land at her command, Eve engaged her friends in battle. Both AIDA and Mary tried to talk to Eve but their attempts at conversation were rebuffed. Scrimblo and Lumir were more at liberty to be ruthless, though it became clear once they struck Eve down that she was nothing but a dream given form by Eve's magic.

The grove around her vanished when the spirits were banished, leaving only Eve in her place seated on the ground. AIDA asked Eve if she wanted to bring Athena back. She confessed that she thought it pointless. No matter how much she tried to keep death at bay, it was inevitable. She went so far as to consider snapping her staff and releasing all the souls whose lives she'd prolonged then and there before Mary brought her back to her senses.

Eve admitted that she didn't know what to do; all her options seemed wrong. AIDA said that only Eve could make that decision. After some further deliberation, Eve made the harder choice: she would let Athena's soul rest. With that moment of acceptance, Eve's staff transformed from its trappings of calcified spring into a living ecosystem of decay. She left the clockwork figurine at the spot and planted a small seed for a memorial as she left. She told the rest of the party that she needed some time to talk to Skald and figure out what all this meant for her and that she would meet them back at the fort. The party let her go and took the airship back to the fort.

Lumir, their task on Skald's behalf complete, bid them farewell and headed on their way back to the Barrier Mountains. Eve returned a few hours after the party had and asked what their next destination should be. AIDA suggested the eye and, since no one had any reason to object, got ready to leave. Mary, however, asked for the party to leave in the morning instead. They were in no rush so the other three agreed.

The atmosphere between the four was extremely strained, particularly between Mary (who was clearly deeply hurt by what had happened) and Eve (who didn't really know what to say to her) so AIDA and Scrimblo went off on their own for most of the day. Scrimblo confided in AIDA that, although things had calmed down, he was still wary of Eve. AIDA felt that was not unreasonable but did her best to try to set Scrimblo at ease. She took a moment, too, to speak with the Lord of Flowers and confirm that He was pleased with the fate of the Shackled Star.

Even though she wasn't totally sure what she should say to Mary, Eve decided that she needed to do something - but when she looked for her friend she couldn't find her. Mary was, in fact, following Eve invisibly during her search, biding her time. Late that night, just as Eve had given up and opted to go to sleep, she summoned her pact weapon with the intent to kill her. When the moment came, though, Mary couldn't go through with it and in her moment of hesitation Eve woke.

Confronted with a conscious Eve, Mary completely broke down. She couldn't understand why she wasn't able to hurt Eve back. Eve, who was at a loss, pulled her into an embrace. After weighing her words for a moment, she said that it didn't always have to be about revenge. But that was what Mary *did*. She didn't want to be hurt again by Eve and the only way to ensure that was to be rid of her. Eve, who had been too wrapped up in her own pain about what had happened to recognize what Mary was feeling until that moment, promised that she would never willingly do something like that again. She would always miss the people she had lost but Mary was *here* and she didn't want to hurt Mary while she was here. Mary was still distraught but she was willing to believe Eve was sincere. She dropped the dagger and let Eve hug her until she was calm enough to sleep.

In the morning, Mary was still emotionally exhausted but she felt stable enough for airship travel. The party set out toward the location of the eye in slightly better spirits. Upon their arrival at the lid of the eye, a small group of Purity priests came out to meet them. Their de-facto leader, High Interpreter Isaac greeted the party and asked why they had come. When they indicated they were curious about the eye, Isaac explained that they had been having issues with it recently. The Grand Seer, as they called it, had been uncooperative and refused to provide any prophecies. It would only open to look at the stars. Their last attempt at direct communication had resulted in nothing but the death of one priest.

AIDA was willing to attempt to speak with it, as she was made to facilitate contact with the most powerful of all beings. She cast sending and made a polite overture. It responded with an image of space and swiveled around to look at AIDA. The force of its regard put AIDA a number of feet into the ground but she was able to withstand it. When it closed again, the priests apologized for its recalcitrance and Isaac give it a kick. Although it was a creature of the Flesh, its lack of hostility made the party want to figure out what it was that the Eye wanted. Eve hoped that contacting it in its dreams would let it communicate more clearly, so she sat down to begin the necessary ritual spell.

In the dream of the Eye, it was surrounded by the void of space. Its gaze was fixed outward on something distant. Eve was able to manipulate the dream to bring it closer and realized that it was staring at the outline of a humanoid form. A few questions determined that the Eye wanted a body. Eve returned to consciousness and told the party what she had seen. Isaac immediately objected but no one was particular interested in letting him dictate what they do. 

Providing it with a regular body was not likely to work but a modified version of AIDA's schematics might be able to contain it safely. With Eva back on Auril, either Yahg or Elkelin would be the next best option to contact. AIDA sent a brief message to the Eye to explain their intentions and ask for its permission. The Eye replied with an image of Constanze attacking AIDA. For a moment, she was unclear whether this was a threat or a warning. Then Constanze attempted to attack her.

A very annoyed Constanze told the party to back off. The Eye already had a body and it should just learn to like it. Besides, she said, giving it autonomy would be a huge mistake. Constanze not wanting something to come to pass simply made the party more convinced that they should do it. Ignoring both Constanze and Isaac, the party returned to the airship and made for Vitris in the hope that they could call on the city's particular expertise once again.

Next
[Session 29](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%203%20-%20A%20Wasteland%20of%20Flesh/Session%2029.md)