---
date: "2024-02-26"
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ae
---
# Session 11

As the party had blithely described their encounter with Acererak in prelude to the story of their trial in the valley, Ciar opened the conversation by inquiring as to how they had treated with the most dangerous living practitioner of the art of magic and lived to tell of it. Kiel obliquely told him that these were strange times and those who dwelt on the Dead Continent more so. Ciar conceded the point, citing his group's own meeting with an arcane wanderer. He described a time-keeping construct that was clearly Rust. Far from being surprised by a temporally displaced vagrant, Ciar mentioned offhandedly that his mysterious patron had concluded that the fabric of time around the Black City had been damaged, leaving pockmarks through which the unwary - or the cunning - might move. The party did not know what to say to that revelation.

Seeking to find a more fruitful topic, Ciar shared that he and his companions had come through the city from the northeastern direction to the valley, meaning they had spent some time inside its walls. The vast majority of the city's architecture had been obliterated by the apocalyptic event that had taken place there and by the simple passage of time but the skeletons of a few notable buildings remained standing: the grand library, a theatre, the massive palace of the Black City. He opined that their preservation had been due to enchantments laid on them as public institutions that mere homes and private businesses had not warranted. The party was intrigued by these descriptions - particularly the library, which if they were fortunate would have first-hand accounts of the historical period of Cosme's interest - and thus passed their hour of recover with some restlessness.

As the party began to break camp, Kiel suggested to Ciar that they might all benefit from exploring the ruins together but he and his group politely declined. Whether he viewed them as active competition he didn't want to aid or had other motives for refusing, the party could not say, but there was a minor false note in his voice when he bid them good luck with their search.

The fog that had filled the descending valley gave way to a dryness that bordered on dessication. All the Dead Continent was an arid place, and it had even been so when it was inhabited, but this unnatural state suggested that some process was consuming any trace of humidity in the air. While the party trudged through the last leg of their journey, Temperance received a sending from Cleric Minnema asking after her safety. Temperance was perhaps a little too honest when she recounted the events of the last month.

At last the unbroken line of the horizon gave way to the walls of Annar Vult. The obsidian from which it was constructed had clearly never been worked by humanoid hands but rather magically folded into shape. A massive hole had been made where the mouth of the valley met the wall, as if the city had been laid siege and fallen. The moment the party crossed the threshold into the Black City - with the exception of Pierre - they experienced a curious sensation closest to suffocation, like being socked in the gut and unable to catch one's breath. Experimentation reveal that though they were all still capable of spellcasting, the medium of magic was thin in the city - even the simplest spells would require greater effort of will than usual. As to why the city was in such a state, the adventurers could not say; not even the greatest works of magic ever conducted on Neria had scarred the firmament of magic like this.

The closest of the intact structures Ciar and company had outlined to the party was a temple that showed signs of neglect dating to a more ancient time than the rest of the city. Its great dome had been shattered to pieces and that blow had seemingly continued down from the heavens to split the central altar in two. Temperance felt a sympathy at the sad sight and touched the cracked stone with the intention of mending it. When their fingertips touched the obsidian a vision flooded their senses. Sprawled atop the altar in a tableau of death was a humanoid figure in white that Temperance nonetheless recognized immediately as a divinity.

Such a disrespectful representation of a god was enough to turn any holy person's stomach but far worse than this was the blade stabbed through the god's chest, pinning It to the altar to bleed out like a stuck pig. Alarmed, Temperance withdrew their hand. They laid their hand on the altar an additional two times, seeking some explanation for what they were seeing and experienced two additional visions of the violent deaths of gods. The rest of the party followed suit, each seeing another vivid scene of a body impaled, beheaded, dismembered. Of them all, Kiel had the most distinct sense that the perpetrator of these events had been *furious* when they'd murdered these beings.

After discussing what they had seen among themselves, Frelia was able to identify the weapon involved as the Sword of Kas, the eponymous sword of Kas the Bloody-Handed. Angel and Pierre were able to tear themselves away from the horrors at the altar to examine the temple as a whole. Much to his amazement, Pierre suspected that they were the first people to set foot here since the fall of the city and Angel spotted what might have been the reason why.

A skeletal form was tucked behind the remains of the temple's double doors, shining with the translucent light of glass. The material itself seemed to have been hit was a percussive force that splintered it into internal facets but did not shatter its overall structure. There was no obvious cause for this transformation but the adventurers had no doubt the destruction of the city was to blame.

Having exhausted what they might learn at the temple, the party departed, leaving the question of what the gods of Annar Vult had done to deserve such a fate.

In a borough west of the temple stood a huge library. Time had bitten through the preservative magic laid on most of the mundane tomes on the shelves such that little more than scraps remained but Angel's keen eye was able to pick out a few damaged spell scrolls that could be repaired and used.

Most notable aside from the collection were incomplete ritual circles that had been set down in various corners of the building. Frelia felt certain they were for summoning rather than warding but The runework was of a style unused in the modern era, making the determination of the circles' addressee the realm of guesswork. Cosme suggested that they simply cut out the middleman and attempt to complete one of the circles themselves. Seeing no reason not to do so, the party allowed her to do so, though they kept hands on their weapons as Cosme intuited the final phrases of the ritual.

With a flash of light, a being who looked to be formed of the same glass that had consumed the bones of Annar Vult's dead, shot through with smoke and pristine where theirs was destroyed stepped out of the aether. They fixed the party with a wide smile and introduced themself as the group's new best friend, the Seeker of Crowns.

Next