---
date: 2023-05-22
tags:
  - recap/ae
  - recap
---
# Session 1

As the crew of the *Muros* unloaded their cargo, one Angel Nevarro, monster hunter, sat on a stack of empty crates, embroiled in a conversation with her longtime friend - and first mate of the *Muros* - Guinevere. The two traded stories and rumours, most interesting of all being the outlandish claims that had reached even the new arrivals' ears of the return of the White Company. Angel put little stock in such claims, given that the Company were ubiquitous heroes out of fairy tale and legend and, if they existed at all, certainly did not survive ten thousand years of indifferent time's erosion.

Meanwhile, in the warehouse district nearby, bounty hunter Kiel O'Vir was hot on the trail of her quarry. Earlier that very day she had been hired by Wizard Frelia Montgomery, apprentice, to chase down a thief who had stolen her spellbook. As she conducted her search, she received a communication via the mirror she kept in her pocket from a mysterious individual. The figure in the mirror was an exact match for Kiel but for their eyes of stained glass and the fact that they spoke when she did not.

The inhabitant of the mirror told Kiel that they had spotted the thief and provided her with their location - a nondescript but currently unoccupied warehouse only a few blocks from where Kiel already was. She arrived explosively on the scene by leaping through the window to restrain the thief. Though taken off guard, they were able to land a few good strikes on Kiel and take off running with the spellbook in tow.

The chase took Kiel and the thief by the pier where Angel and Guinevere were chatting. Before this unexpected audience, Kiel was successful in beating the thief into submission and taking back the stolen property. Angel, feeling some sympathy for the thief, offered to heal them but was rebuffed. Kiel commented with some respect on Angel's good nature before departing. Once Guinevere had dismissed her fellow crewmates, she invited Angel to accompany her to the Misty Elephant - where she would be staying during her time in the city - for some drinks. Angel accepted.

At the taproom in question, a hobgoblin and a human man had just teleported into the basement. The man - Pierre, a stranger - was unused to teleportation and to the peculiarities of the Dead Continent in general and his companion was not especially interested in easing him into things. Cosme informed him that they had a meeting in about an hour that would shed light on the reason she had hired him. Pierre, having no other recourse, agreed to wait. The pair spent some time bickering, as Cosme began to doubt that the spell she had used to find him had indeed identified the best person for the job, but managed to keep things civil.

Halfway across the city, on the steps of the Septaspire, Wizard Montgomery was waiting to meet with Kiel. Owing to her familiarity with the city, Kiel arrived promptly and exchanged the spellbook for her payment of 20 gold pieces. As the bounty hunter was preparing to depart, Frelia stopped her and asked if she would be willing to be immediately hired for another job: being her bodyguard for a meeting she would soon be attending at the Misty Elephant. Kiel, having no pressing business, agreed.

Nearly 2,000 feet up, in the Cleric's Spire, Cleric Temperance Clement, apprentice, was seated outside her mentor's office. Cleric Taitske Minnema had summoned her for a private discussion that afternoon but upon her arrival it became clear that the Cleric had a prior engagement. Temperance could hear voices on the other side of the door and was unable to resist the temptation to eavesdrop. The visitor questioned whether Cleric Minnema found the circulating rumours about the White Company credible and whether her apprentice was truly suited to the task. Unfortunately, before Temperance could hear much more, the conversation was over. Cleric Minnema opened the door to catch Temperance red-handed but she simply invited her inside without much reprimand. Curiously, though there had been no time for the mysterious visitor to leave, Temperance found no sign of another soul in the room.

Cleric Minnema informed Temperance that she was assigning them an independent study of sorts. The Cleric had been invited to participate in an expeditionary venture to set these claims about the White Company to rest one way or another. She initially wanted to go herself but her work at the Spire was too critical to be set aside, so she intended to send Temperance in her stead. Temperance was not particularly enthusiastic about this but if her mentor felt she was ready for such an undertaking, she would give it her all. The Cleric gave them the time and location of the meeting and sent them off with a reminder that she would be happy to help them with access to Septaspire resources and materials.

After a hurried period of packing, Temperance returned to say her goodbyes. She noticed that the Cleric was in the middle of some manner of spell when she returned but could not identify it among the spells she knew. Cleric Minnema said that it was a simple summoning spell to call an elemental messenger. Feeling as though something was going on that they should know about, they asked the Cleric who she was speaking to earlier. The Cleric said she must have been mistaken, no one else had been to her office that afternoon.

About an hour later, Frelia, Kiel, and Temperance arrived at the Misty Elephant for their appointment with Cosme. She mistakenly folded Angel and Guinevere - who had just come for a drink but nevertheless stood out among the other patrons for their attire - into the meeting as well, and out of curiosity both were willing to hear Cosme out.

Cosme explained the nature of her interest in the sightings of the White Company, namely as material for a song that would make her name as a bard and to cash in on the various bribes for information that would be paid out by organisations across Neria for exclusive access to the truth of the matter. After some discussion and cajoling, everyone except Guinevere, who could not go haring off on a quest when her ship sailed again in a mere week, agreed to a tentative alliance.

Heartened by this, Cosme insisted that this would be a simple job. As the entire continent had been scoured thousands of years ago by the clash that had destroyed the ancient city of Annar Vult, there were really only two places that the party would need to check: the ruins of Annar Vult and the Tomb of Acererak to the south. Before they travelled beyond the city's walls, however, they would need access to the most recent historical records and land surveys conducted by the Spire. Fortunately, Temperance had been directly told she could obtain such access and lead the way for her companions to the Septaspire.

The fresh allegiances between the adventurers were still rather rocky, casting an awkward pall over the walk to the Spire. In the groups they had arrived in, the adventurers debated whether they could truly trust complete strangers. Kiel, for one, was surprised to hear that Frelia, the only member of the party who had known well in advance about the meeting, had not vetted Cosme at all. Frelia admitted that she actually *hadn't* known in advance because the invitation had gone to her mentor Wizard Bazzan Glenfellow and she had come only because he was indisposed. Under questioning, Frelia revealed why: she had accidentally banished him to Pandaemonium. This revelation did nothing to ease the tension.

At the approach to the Septaspire, those who were not members of the institution began to feel a strange sense of foreboding. Frelia and Temperance realised what was going on and Temperance scrambled off to find Cleric Minnema. Cosme told the rest of the group that supposedly the wards laid over the Septaspire would spell the death of any unauthorised visitor because they had been created during the war that had doomed the Dead Continent. However, no one need be rent into a fine mist of blood and organs that day, as Temperance returned with the Cleric in tow. Cleric Minnema cast the appropriate spells to allow the party entrance to the Spire and even provided some refreshments before departing, leaving the party to make their way to the archives.

Next
[[Session 02 - Seeds in a Dead Land|Session 02 - Seeds in a Dead Land]]