---
tags: recap
---
# Heaven Will Be Mine

## Part 1

Our party of two unlikely companions, a sprite and a cambion, met with noted cartographer Anaxi Zephries in his office, having responded to his request for the assistance of seasoned adventurers. He had recently sent an expedition to map the Barrier Peaks, spearheaded by a tiefling named Garret Levistusson. Just as the team had reached the foot of the mountains, he lost contact with them. The party, then, was to continue where they had left off and to retrieve Garret if he could be found. In exchange, he would provide payment to the two either in the form of money, which Aillen preferred, or a map, which Percy chose instead. With that settled, he introduced the pair to two others who would be accompanying them: an eladrin named Mary and a modron named Gearbox. The four (except Gearbox, who spoke no Common) exchanged pleasantries before heading out to hire a wagon to the edge of the stretch of fae woods that lay between the town and the edge of the Barrier Peaks.

Over the course of the wagon ride, Mary explained to the two that she had come into the possession of a deck of several things, a magical item of significant power. However, she was unable to use it herself and so she offered the chance to both the adventurers. Percy was keen to give it a try and immediately regretted her choice when she drew The Idiot, causing her to have her intelligence reduced. Determined to get something good out of this, she pulled another card The Jester and was able to draw an additional two cards. The first of these two was The Throne, increasing her persuasive abilities, and the second was Wealth which plopped a pot of gold right in the party's lap. Aillen, for their part, drew two cards. The first, The Moon allowed them to cast any spell below a certain threshold once, but the second The Devil did nothing except immolate menacingly, causing Aillen to decline to draw any more cards as a precaution.

In the late afternoon, the wagon dropped the four off in the woods. Gearbox took point from then on, as they had an innate sense of direction and would be remaking the maps that potentially had been lost with Garret. As they neared a stream, the party came across another group who attempted to convince the party they were fellow travelers to the Barrier Peaks. Percy, as a pirate, saw through this transparent attempt at a lie by the bandits, though she was content to let them go on their way. Aillen, on the other hand, recognized that they had their eyes on Gearbox and had an ill opinion of bandits to begin with. They initiated a fight with the bandits that lasted about 6 seconds, since the thugs were hardly equipped to fight a group of adventurers. Rather than finishing off the injured leader of the group, Percy let him go as he posed no real threat to them, to Aillen's disapproval.

Their instincts would turn out to be right later that day, as the party settled down to sleep. Having rallied more bandits, the leader returned to attempt ambushing the four in the night. Fortunately, Aillen was able to spot them easily and the fight went about as well for the bandits as last time. This time the survivors were two thieves who proved to be much smarter than their leader, choosing to run for the hills and trouble other, less well-armed travelers. In the morning, the party passed by the grave of a fae. Little offerings to the dead had been set around it and Percy contributed one of her own. The fae, appreciating the gesture, granted her the one-time ability to cast a spell to create a temporary tower.

Their next encounter in the forest was less peaceful. An oaken bolter sped down the hillside to meet them, attacking the group. It gave the party some trouble but they were able to fend it off without sustaining too much damage. From this point, the treeline gave way to the a tunnel through the mountains and the path wound its way to the strange sight of an island, suspended in the sky by no apparent magical means. Aillen had noticed some graffiti in the tunnel describing a place known as the Monastery of the Distressed Body, and could only conclude that this was the monastery the writing had spoken of. Supposedly, it was headed by a Grand Master who took in those who sought shelter. The party figured that this Grand Master might know of Garret's whereabouts and resolved to reach the monastery.

Both Aillen and Percy could fly easily enough, and Percy had enough strength to carry Mary and Gearbox as well. However, before they could take to the air, a gynosphinx swooped down to block their way. She had been charged with preventing people from reaching the monastery, but would be willing to allow them to pass if they could ask her a question she couldn't answer. The party wasn't able to do so, prompting the sphinx to reveal that she would be exacting a toll of their intelligence as a consequence. Percy, who'd had just about enough of having her mind messed with, attacked the sphinx, initiating a fight the party were at a significant disadvantage for. As the sphinx wore the party down, she continued to offer them the chance to back down. Only with Aillen banished did Percy relent, causing the sphinx to allow Aillen to return to the Material Plane and, in doing so, allowing the opportunity for the party to rally their forces and slay her. She dropped two Ioun stone on her defeat, one of which was given to Mary and one which the party kept for themselves.

A ferry came through the sky to met the party, captained by a merrenoloth. Deciding it was easier to take the ferry, the party stepped aboard. When they reached the monastery, they were met by a man who offered to take them to the Grand Master, though he intimated the sinister intentions the Grand Master had toward his guests. Nonetheless, the party had little in the way of options if they wanted to locate Garret and agreed to an audience with the Grand Master. The Grand Master turned out to be a bone devil, who welcomed the party to the monastery and said he was sure they would be of some use to him. That is, until he noticed Aillen's presence. He seemed intent on tormenting them, a twist of fate that had been created by the deck of several things. A peaceful resolution, then, was out of the question and a fight erupted. The party was both outnumbered and worse-for-wear from their encounter with the sphinx, leading to a difficult fight with the Grand Master and his followers. Things become so dire that Aillen used their granted spell on a healing spell for the whole party and Percy used her spell from the fae to trap the Grand Master within a tower while they picked off his minions. Between taking potshots at the Grand Master as he was forced to magically flee by Percy's dissonant whispers and Mary's consistent damage with eldritch blasts, the party was able to come out on top, but utterly exhausted.

The four barricaded themselves in the audience chamber, learning two interesting things as they explored their surroundings before taking a rest. The first thing they discovered was that the throne in the audience room was a method of controlling the entire monastery, as well as opening a portal that led to the Nine Hells. The second was that the Grand Master was actually a robotic construct piloted by a quasit whom Aillen swifted dispatched. Once they had rested, the party explored the rest of the monastery. They found Garret among a group of prisoners who had been forced to stoke the engines of the monastery to keep it aloft. The party wouldn't be able to free the prisoners without causing the monastery to plunge into the valley below, prompting them to seek out a control room for the engines in the hopes that they could use it to land the monastery safely.

As they headed toward the control room, they found a smaller floating island that served as a treasury. Within, they found a brain in a jar which, as it happened, belonged to the bone devil who had been transformed into the construct that had been the Grand Master. The legendary inventor Kwalish, on his expedition to the Barrier Peaks, had come across the monastery and set up machinery to remove brains from their bodies. One of his test subjects had been the bone devil, who had been set to waste away in the treasury while his body was converted by Kwalish. He asked the party to restore him to his body, but it was clear he would simply turn on them at the first opportunity. Instead, the four sifted through the treasury, finding several magical items and Kwalish's journal. The journal pointed to the city of Daoine Gloine as his final destination but its discovery set off a self-destruct system that sent the treasury plummeting below. Fortunately, the party were able to escape via flight, though the bone devil was not so lucky.

At last, the party found the control room, learning that the bone devil had not been the only one caught up in Kwalish’s experiments. The monastery was being controlled by five brains, some of whom had been part of Kwalish’s expedition and some who were simply unlucky enough to come across it later. As fate – or more accurately, the deck of several things – would have it, the control system recognized Percy as the rightful master of the monastery and so was willing to overclock the engines to allow the prisoners to go free, though in a week the monastery would run out of fuel and fall out of the sky. Percy, considering all the things she could do with a mobile city-ship, was determined not to allow that to happen, deciding to follow Kwalish to Daoine Gloine in the hopes that the man could be convinced to help them, or if he was dead, some invention of his might help. The brains, too, wanted to be returned to humanoid bodies, a task Kwalish could make easy work of. So, the party, with the addition of Garret and the loss of Gearbox who felt drawn to connect themself in to the control system and work on the problem of keeping it afloat, set off for Daoine Gloine, a city rumoured to be populated by glass people.

## Part 2

Before leaving the monastery, Aillen and Percy made a short stop at the place the cultist who had greeted them at the dock referred to as the "leatherworks", not wanting to leave any corners of the monastery unexplored. Within this building, the two found a suit of leather armour that seemed to have been carved from a flesh golem. As Aillen approached it, the faces that had been removed from petitioners of the Monastery of the Distressed Body detached themselves from the walls of this room where they had hung as grotesque decoration and attacked. The adventurers were able to fend off the swarms of faces without much trouble, though they were both distinctly grossed out. With no further mysteries aboard the ship, they flew down to the tunnels that would take them through the Barrier Peaks to the city of Daoine Gloine. In the winding paths of stone, the party came across the remnants of a failed expedition, which they picked over for any useful supplies. As they did so, four ooze-folk squelched toward them, surprising the party with their out-of-place appearance. Once they had been dealt with, the party made camp for the night, knowing from Garret's maps that the city would be reachable in the morning.

The early morning sun gleamed across the city of Daoine Gloine as the party approached, highlighting the city's most peculiar feature. What had appeared to be a city resting in some sort of flooded basin was revealed to be engulfed in ooze. Passing through the ooze was impossible but the party made use of their powers of flight to bypass the city's streets and explore the upper floors of buildings tall enough to remain above the ooze. A red building near the city's western edge was their first destination. It appeared to have been a machine shop before the city's fall, containing all manner of clockwork constructs and materials. The craftsperson's magnus opus was a clockwork kraken with a central coffin. Several voices emanated from the coffin, asking for help, though the coffin was only sized for one person. Aillen determined that a kenku was trapped inside and they managed to pick the lock, tripping an alarm system that turned the clockwork kraken hostile. Even with the additional firepower Garret brought to the fight, the battle with the construct was not an easy one, fending off the party with decent success until it was worn down by damage to its tentacles.

Assured that the danger had passed, the kenku, who had been jellified presumably during whatever event had overtaken the city, asked to be freed. After Percy tried a few times to scoop her out of the coffin, she clarified that only Kwalish could release her and told the party that he could be found in a dungeon beneath the ooze. While the party puzzled over how they could reach such a place, she directed their attention to a crab-like construct that was a larger version of Kwalish's only known invention - the Apparatus of Kwalish. Fortunately for the party, it came with a manual for operation that Percy read over the course of a short rest to recover from the fight with the kraken. Mysteriously, it referred to a function of the Apparatus that allowed the targeting of a "bauble" to create a portal within the Appartus linked to its extradimensional space.

At Daoine Gloine's street level, it became clear what this instruction meant. Tableaus of everyday life had been set up across the city with glass figures, many of which featured glass baubles as fruit, jewels, or eyes. Ignoring these for the moment, the party used the Apparatus to reach a blue-roofed building on the other side of the city, hoping that it might be the dungeon the kenku spoke of. It was, in fact, a glass workshop where the magical kiln was still lit. Before it, a glass statue of an artisan held another bauble. Percy, concluding that this bauble was as good as any to test the portal on, focused the Apparatus on it, creating a portal to a strange laboratory filled with half-completed work, a mind flayer in stasis, and Kwalish. The famed inventor had somehow survived the thousands of years since his travel to the Barrier Peaks and continued his experiments within the extradimensional space of the bauble. He was not expecting the party but was happy enough to use them as guinea pigs for the armour he was designing, agreeing to listen to their requests once he'd given Percy a sound hit while she was wearing it. They party explained their dilemmas and Kwalish was willing to help, once he was assured that the Grand Master had been killed, as long as the party dealt with the city's medusa.

He explained that, when he had first arrived at Daoine Gloine, it had been home to kenku who worshipped a medusa with the peculiar power to turn her victims to glass as a god. He had been imprisoned in the temple and only managed to escape by opening a portal to the Abyss, flooding the city with ooze from Juiblex's pits, and retreating to the safety of the bauble. Knowing they would need Kwalish's cooperation, the party agreed to slay the medusa, making their way to the temple. Hoping to make a stealthy approach, Aillen and Percy left Garret and Mary in command of the Apparatus, telling them to hang back until they gave the signal. Carefully, they swooped down from the window toward the medusa, catching her off-guard. However, just as the fight erupted, Percy used a mirror Aillen had picked up in the monastery's treasury to turn the medusa's gaze back against her, instantly turning the medusa to glass. Aillen wasted no time in shattering her, effectively ending the fight before it had begun. The temple contained a few trinkets and some treasure, which the party helped themselves to before scuttling away in the Apparatus.

Before going back to Kwalish's bauble with news of the medusa's death, the party explored a few of the baubles scattered across the city. The more notable encounters included the ballroom of a wraith where the polymorph blade from the monastery's treasury transformed Aillen into a giant scorpion, a marketplace in the city of Sigil where the party made a useful business contact should they ever get into the world of shoe sales, and an arena where the party fought shadowy doubles of themselves. After this last, difficult fight, the party returned to the laboratory and informed Kwalish of the specifics of their requests. He refused to help the kenku, as she had been the leader of the cult that rose up around the medusa, but was willing to create bodies for the brains in the monastery's central control and assist in dealing with its fuel problem. Once he had collected his laboratory bauble (by exploiting an impossibility in the universe by being careful not to mention it too much) and some materials from his Apparatus garage, the party retraced their steps through the Barrier Peaks to the monastery.

They made use of the merrenoloth's ferry once again to allow the Apparatus to be brought aboard, leading to Percy re-negotiating the merrenoloth's contract as the new master of the monastery. Once they'd returned to the ship, they headed to the control room. Kwalish determined that it would be simplest to repurpose the bone devil to make bodies for the brains and set about doing so. While he tinkered, Gearbox told the party that they had integrated with the ship and would be acting henceforth as its control system. After some thought about how to address the problem of fuel, the party concluded that, if this was a spacefaring vessel, it must have reserves in the lower, unexplored levels of the ship. Kwalish took a few minutes away from constructing bodies to tune the gate in the audience chamber to the bowels of the ship, allowing the party to explore it for resources.

It was at this point, where the realities of heading into space were becoming more tangible, that Aillen and Mary decided to part ways with Percy and co. Mary had to return to the Cartophile with the maps and notes he had been promised while Aillen had an assassination to carry out on behalf of their queen. Percy bid them both farewell with a standing invitation to return to the crew if they ever wanted to. Now short two party members, she tuned the gate back to the Nine Hells to contact a friend she had made during her service in the Blood War: a witch named Orias who was intrigued enough by the prospect of exploring the cosmos and a small bribe of spell scrolls to agree to join the crew. Together, the two prepared to explore the depths of the monastery the following morning.

## Part 3

Before Orias and Percy could step foot in the unexplored lower levels of the monastery, Gearbox spoke to them over the monastery's audio broadcasting system. Someone was approaching the monastery, clearly intending to come aboard. Concluding that if this traveller proved troublesome, the two adventurers could deal with them, the stranger was allowed on the ferry and met at the dock. Their visitor was a quickling named Nythos, a fellow adventurer who had followed the rumours surrounding the Barrier Peaks to the monastery. He was eager to join the two in their attempts to restore the ship's spacefaring capabilities and explore the vast reaches of the universe. The mere fact that he had managed to survive the trek to the monastery was a point in his favour and he was allowed a spot on the crew so long as he was able to help them clear the monastery of any remaining dangers.

The ship's interior was starkly different from the structures above deck, metallic steel covered in the dust of thousands of years lit by the dull red of emergency lights. Even something as familiar as doors operated differently and the three had to use the manual override to bypass the lack of power to the door system. The first room they were able to access was filled with overgrown plants. They were not a species any of the group recognized, though they seemed to be fruit-bearing. However, when Percy took a bite of one of these fruits, the plants became hostile and attacked. Once the party had fended off the plants, they were able to get a better look at the room and see lifeless mannequins standing on either side of the room. Orias, after some consideration, deduced that they were constructs of some kind, though like much of the ship, they were non-operational. To the north, the party found a room that had been subject to an explosion. A monitor in the room played a recording of the events that had led to its destruction, making it clear that it had once been a functioning engine room. In this footage, the party saw what type of aliens had originally flown the spaceship, which were roughly humanoid aside from a single eye and additional arm.

As they continued to uncover the rooms of the lower levels, the party came across recreation and sleeping quarters, as well as the remnants of some type of storage room that had presumably been damaged by the explosion from the engine given the closeness of the two rooms. On the east side of the floor, many of the rooms were mirrored, including an intact engine room (labeled "auxiliary engine" in Deep Speech) and a storage room containing fuel. At this point, the party had found what the were looking for, but before bringing Kwalish down to begin reactivating the power and repairing the ship's systems, they wanted to ensure nothing sinister lurked in the rest of the ship. Unlike the constructs on the damaged side of the ship, the constructs in the engine room demanded that the party displayed their authorization. For a few moments, they were at a loss until Percy remembered the study they had passed through and gambled on the chance that some means of authorization would be there. An ID card lay on the desk and, as it happened, this card had belonged to the ship's captain and satisfied the constructs. One final room on this floor had padded walls and contained nothing but a pedestal (labeled "gravitational control matrix"). The pedestal had a roughly cuboid hole, making it clear that they would need to insert a cube into that spot.

On the ship's lowest level, the three found a few rows of lockers. One of these was openable with the keycard and contained a few trinkets, which the party helped themselves to. Aside from the unsettling presence of two rooms with specimens from Toril and a dissection room, a locked room required facial recognition for access. Using the appearance of the alien they'd seen on the monitor, Orias was able to get them in to the room, which turned out to be a vault containing a rifle of some kind and four platinum bars.

Certain that it was safe, so long as they had the keycard, the party asked Gearbox to tell Kwalish he could come down and begin work on repairs. Since they would take some time to complete, the party decided to return to Daoine Gloine to retrieve the bauble that had linked to the city of Sigil, as it would let them access a market whenever they wanted. With two days of travel automated by the Apparatus, Orias spent her time figuring out how to operate the antimatter rifle and Nythos caught up on his knitting. The city of Daoine Gloine, devoid of any living residents, should have been just as they'd left it, but the mass of slime that had engulfed the city was noticably moving. In response to being questioned about this, the mass simply repeated the word consume, deeply concerning the three adventurers. As soon as they had the bauble in hand, they left Daoine Gloine behind, though Orias was quick to contact the legions of Hell to bring their attention to what was likely an aspect of a demon lord wandering unchecked.

On the return trip, Orias and Nythos had their first visit to Sigil, making use of the expansive marketplace to purchase spell scrolls and enchanted yarn. Their return was interrupted by a notification from Gearbox that they had not seen Kwalish for the past day. Orias' familiar Labolas, who had been left behind to translate the Deep Speech on the ship for Kwalish, was able to tell the party that Kwalish had managed to drop the ID card into the engine while he was working on it, leading to the constructs chasing him out and forcing him to hide. With the party as backup, Labolas went into the engine to recover the card, managing to do so before the ship's constructs became hostile toward the party. Now that the danger had passed, the party found Kwalish in his hiding spot and told him the coast was clear. The upside of the incident was that, as he'd tried to hide in one of the ship's ducts, he found the missing gravitational matrix. With the engine and atmospheric controls in working order, this meant that the party had all that they needed to take the ship into orbit.

To prevent any more trouble with identification, the party went back to the captain's room to speak with one of the constructs that had been reactivated with the return of power to the ship's systems. It told them how to create ID cards for anyone they wanted. After creating cards for the First Mate (Orias), Security Fast Man (Nythos), Chief Engineer (Kwalish), and the rest of the crewmembers (the former brains), the party returned briefly to Sigil to purchase starcharts so that they would have some idea where they were going. Having christened the ship The Voynich, the three set out on their maiden voyage, leaving Toril behind.