---
date: 2020-05-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 6

In the days after the havoc wreaked by the doppelganger, tensions had grown between the sailors. It had not come to anything more than a general frostiness behind the usual interactions but it was evident that the crew had been unsettled by the idea that any of them might be replaced by a malevolent creature without any sign of difference. In light of this, one of the crewmen, Greg, took Mendelain aside to request his assistance. News of what had happened to Thorden’s body had spread among the sailors and speculation had grown that a vampire was responsible, having turned into a swarm of rats and then back into a humanoid form, explaining to disappearance of the creatures. He hoped that as a cleric Mendelain would be able to root out the vampire with his holy powers.

Mendelain was doubtful that a vampire was at work but he agreed, if only to soothe the man’s nerves. Sal, summoned by the fact that Mendelain was clearly in the know on some gossip, was brought up to speed by Mendelain. Likewise, they were not convinced that they were dealing with a vampire but given Mendelain’s ability as a diviner, they figured it wouldn’t hurt to ask. Before the pair could make much headway, Lavender Larold came to collect them, along with all three of the adventuring parties. They had been sent on Jeremiah’s behalf; he had seen something interesting on the Ice Breaker’s path. The astrolabe had indicated that they would be sailing near a dragon’s den housed beneath the roots of a forest. Given the reputation of dragons as collectors of treasures of all sorts, Jeremiah hoped they might find magical artifacts in their possession.

In the hour before they arrived at the forest, Sal and Narthaniel watched from the crow’s nest for signs of this unlikely forest. With Sal’s careful eye, they were able to make out the forest through the thick fog that enveloped it. Rather than trees, towering humanoid figures appeared to be standing stock-still on the ice. On the main deck, Lavender Larold and more surprisingly Julian (in direct defiance of Sir Grey’s orders) offered to assist the party as best as they could in the approach to the lair.

Their efforts would prove to be instrumental, as the forest of desiccated, frozen giants was not at all silent. As the Ice Breaker sailed into the mist that seemed to pour off the giants, a horn sounded in the distance. One by one and then incredibly quickly, small blue lights came into view on the “trees”, moving closer and closer to the ship. Giants closer in size to their modern appearance with glowing blue eyes were climbing down the “trees” and attempting to jump on-board the Ice Breaker as it passed by. Only a handful of giants made their mark but even a single giant posed a significant threat to the ship. However, unlike previous adventures, some members of the party had a shared language with their assailants. Eve tried to resolve things peacefully but it was clear that the giants were not entirely in control of their own actions.

Hoping to dispel the enchantment, Eve undid the magic surrounding one of the giants, but with the total removal of all spells affecting the giant, the magic preserving them disappeared, causing them to die on the spot. While the party had been fighting the giants who managed to hit their mark, the sound of the horn had been drawing ever closer. Cutting through the fog came a flying longship crewed by a number of giants, one of whom looked like a potential leader. Unlike their fellow giants, the speed of the longship allowed them to board the Ice Breaker in greater numbers, accompanied by several bird reinforcements. With the assistance of Mysterium Incorporeal and Julian, the party was able to take down the head giant and his forces, though the longship itself escaped by dropping out of speed with the ship and disappearing into the mists.

Eventually, the Ice Breaker reached a large clearing with a visible hole in the ground. Presuming that it was the location of the dragon’s lair, the party took some time to rest before heading below. During this time, Mendelain was able to establish that the lair was indeed inhabited, as well as the lack of any vampiric presence on the Ice Breaker. Fortunately for the party, banks of snow lined the passage below, making their descent into the network of caverns a smooth one. Unlike a typical cavern of rock and dirt, these tunnels had been hewn out of ice that glittered like glass. A dim blue light lit the corridors, offering just enough to see by.

The clear ice became progressively frosted until it was mostly opaque. In this portion of the tunnel, stepping on the ice would cause it to break at reveal rows of sharp icicles underneath, as Sal found out when they fell through it. With a quick spell, they were able to avoid actually falling, however, and Eve was able to safely ferry the party across to more patches of more solid ice. To the north, a grave had been erected. At the foot of the headstone, a de-stringed lyre had been laid and into it an epitaph memorializing a bard had been carved. After encountering a pool of snap-freezing water that they avoiding being trapped in by sacrificing and then digging out Sal’s grappling hook, they found an impressive pair of ice sculptures. One depicted a triton bard singing and the other, composed of smaller scenes from their life, was a dragon listening nearby.

In addition to the sculptures, carvings of both art and experimental poetry had been dug into the walls, sprawling across a number of walls. A wind instrument had even been constructed out of several cylinders of ice. Though none of the party could play it properly, the few notes they were able to manage had a pleasing if melancholy sound. At the end of the carved tunnels nested a white dragon, surrounded by breathtaking works of art in all mediums. When the party introduced themselves rather than approaching hostilely, the dragon responded in kind. Speaking in rhyming couplets, he gave his name as Mynnyr and questioned why they had come to his abode. The party explained their role in Jeremiah’s expedition and his specific interest in Mynnyr’s lair. Aside from his considerable collection of art, he had come into possession of several magical items, some of which he was filling to part with if the party were able to regale him with an interesting story.

Mary stepped up to the challenge, firing back against the story of the dragon’s conquests of kingdoms, clever trickery of empresses, and victories over other dragons in contests of might with the tale of her exile from and revenge on the village that had persecuted her. Impressed with her tale, the dragon allowed the party to take three items from his collection and was willing to answer some of their questions about the icy expanse they were travelling on. Mynnyr had lived so long that he could recall a time before ice had blanketed the world or the Flesh had nested in its core. According to him, the planet had been encased in ice by a powerful wizard to prevent the spread of the Flesh. Unfortunately, he had never met this fabled wizard. He did not even know her name but the confirmation alone that the encasing of Auril in ice had been deliberate was a staggering revelation to the party.

They asked, delicately, about the bard who Mynnyr had memorialized. They had been a dear friend and the direct inspiration for Mynnyr’s work as an artist rather than merely as a collector. He missed them dearly but the party assured him that they would likely have loved his art if they could have seen it. Once the party had selected their items, they parted ways with the dragon and returned to the ship.

Things were tense on the main deck, with the Crimson Streak on high alert. In the party’s absence, Jeremiah had been seeking information about their next destination from the astrolabe. Simply activating the device had caused the immobile giants that surrounded the clearing to turn to stare at the ship. Nothing further had happened yet but the moment the party was safely aboard Hale tore off along the ice once more, leaving the forest behind. Until they passed by the last “tree”, the flying longship that had attacked them previously followed their progress, though like the frozen giants it made no direct moves against the ship.

As the Ice Breaker glided along, Mendelain took Eve aside to ask whether or not she had heard Mary’s tale before she had told it in Mynnyr’s lair. She confirmed that she had. Mendelain, who had been shocked to hear what Mary had done, simply accepted that the rest of the party had come to terms with Mary’s actions. There was little else he could do if the others did not intend to confront her on it. Eve, who had never truly addressed the matter with Mary, was not really certain she could at this point, but she assured Mendelain that she had not done anything like that since at the very least. Not particularly comforted by that, Mendelain headed off to pray and think about the matter privately.

Anticipating having some time to relax, the party decided they would inform Jeremiah of what they had learned from Mynnyr, in the hopes that he might be able to determine the identity of the wizard responsible for the current state of their world.

Next
[Session 07](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2007.md)