---
date: 2020-04-12
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 3

On the portion of the deck near the prow, Sal and Sir Grey prepared for their duel - to the first one rendered unconscious. For all his bravado, the contest was entirely one-sided, with Sir Grey only landing a few blow on Sal. The ranger, on the other hand, brought Sir Grey nearly to unconsciousness in twelve seconds. As a last ditch effort to salvage the duel, Sir Grey tried to push Sal over the railing of the deck and onto the ice below. He was unsuccessful, leaving the opening Sal needed to knock him out. Though they would have been well within their rights to draw attention to Sir Grey’s attempted murder, they did left him to have his wounds tended by Julian.

Over the next several days, the party whiled away the hours on various activities. Mendelain asked Bjork if he would be willing to take on an apprentice cook. Despite his complete lack of experience with cooking, Bjork started him off with some of the basics of food preparation with dinner that evening. Later that night, Mary asked Jasmine if she had any interest in forming a coven. She had formerly been a member of a number of covens, though none of those arrangements had worked out long-term. However, she accepted Mary’s offer so long as they could find a third member to add to their pair. Mary elected Eve for the position, who had no real objections since it would be a nice way for them to hang out. The initiation ritual Jasmine conducted involved using blood from all three of them to grow a little tree. It would act as a manifestation of their coven and as it grew naturally, they would gain certain powers.

In the meantime, Eve spent a few days enjoying the company of the crew. As they spoke, she learned more about them and the circumstances that had led them to joining the expedition. Likewise, Korvias in his efforts to socialize Dunkin was often around Mysterium Incorporeal, who were fascinated by the story of what had happened in the hamlet and begun to formulate some theories about the nature of the Flesh.

The party’s leisure time was interrupted by another report from the crow’s nest of an object on the horizon. Unlike the corpse of the giant, it was much more difficult to identify from a distance because it was not stationary. The Ice Breaker would overtake it within a few hours, at which point the adventurers would be called on again. Although he had recovered from the duel, Sir Grey’s ego remained bruised and he refused to even come abovedeck whilst the party and Mysterium Incorporeal were there. As the Ice Breaker neared the other vessel, its peculiar appearance became more distinct against the horizon. It was a T-shaped ambulatory machine covered with a thick layer of hoarfrost. As the ship’s engineer, Gauss was asked to accompany the party to examine the make of the machine.

Mysterium Incorporeal would drop onto the top of the machine to take a closer look at its external elements while Gauss and the party entered from a small catwalk at the back of the vessel. Inside, the party found a room lined with numbered lockers, suggesting it and the catwalk were used to deploy maintenance crews as needed to the propeller blades that moved the vessel across the ice. The lockers were neatly arranged and the room was well-lit but there was no sign of the crew, only the faint hum of the machinery that powered the ship.

Vinny squeezed through a nearby maintenance tunnel to a shower room that was equally clean but empty, without even a layer of dust on its surfaces. Adjacent to the shared bathroom space was the crew quarters. Hammocks laden with blankets and pillows were tied to metal beams and several games were set out on tables but, once again, the party felt the eerie impression that nothing in this room had ever been used.

As the party headed toward the front of the ship, they found a storage room filled with untouched crates of provisions, prompting Eve to see whether the ship was enchanted in some manner. The room was suffused with illusion and transmutation magic, which was concerning but not conclusive on its own. Nearby was a makeshift distillery, from which Gauss suggested the party grab a few barrels on the way out to distribute among the crew.

The distillery was not the only sign of the vessel’s self-sufficiency on the ice; both a cannery for captive eels and a greenhouse with an automatic irrigation system were part of the ship’s design. Interestingly, the skylight of the greenhouse projected the illusion of a cloudless, sunny day which persisted when panels were removed. Gauss, intrigued by the many advanced designs, decided to remain in the greenhouse with the intent to salvage some of its infrastructure to bring back to the Ice Breaker

Just prior to reaching the helm of the ship, the party passed through the captain’s office. The immaculately tidy room was mostly empty, aside from a model of the known world depicting the disk that the party called home and a wide expanse of the ice above. The view from the observation deck itself was clouded entirely with ice, so much so that the line of the horizon in the distance was only barely visible. As the party explored the helm, all but Mary were drawn into a vision of the past.

A man sat at the panel of switches and gauges that controlled the ship’s heading and movement. Another sailor entered from behind him, telling him that he was to be relieved of his position at the helm. Oblivious to the murderous intentions of his fellow sailor, the man said with a hint of tiredness in his voice that it was about time. With grim determination, the sailor killed the captain, announcing to the mob of crewmen behind them that they had the blood they wanted mere seconds before the frenzied crew descended on the sailor, rending them limb from limb.

When the vision faded, the illusion that had covered the true state of disrepair that the ship had fallen into shattered before the party’s eyes. The evidence of the crimes they had witnessed in the moments before stained the walls and floor of the observation deck, illuminated only when the party provided their own light. Concerned for Gauss’ safety, the party hurried back to the greenhouse where he had last been seen. On their way, the party noticed that the model of the world in the captain’s quarters had a number of additions - an obsidian obelisk, the corpse of the frost giant they had encountered a week before, a large floating eye, and a wide crack in the model. Since they had seen one of these landmarks previously, the party concluded that they might come across the rest in their travels.

Instead of the fruits and vegetables that had been growing there in the illusory version of the ship, a pulsating mass of twisted flesh grew up and around the rows of tables. Three emaciated figures wearing the tattered remains of sailor’s uniforms wandered aimlessly amongst the knots of flesh, becoming aggressive once the light fell on them. After the party had fought them off, with no sign of Gauss, they doubled back briefly to grab the model from the captain’s room before exploring the rest of the ship.

The cannery, with the water of its tank of eels now clouded with detritus and encircled with more lumps of flesh, was empty, but the sound of something moving wetly across the floor toward the party echoed loudly. Two bipedal forms composed of wriggling swarms of eels ambushed the party, animated by some unknown force. Fortunately for the party, their revolting appearance was more difficult to deal with than their ambush. With only the living quarters remaining, the party hurried to the back of the ship. A mound of corpses were strewn across the floor, with a number of reanimated dead shuffling around the bodies.

The party carved their way through the zombies to the catwalk, where Gauss was waiting for them. He was shaken and had been injured but not so grievously that he couldn’t be healed by Eve and Mendelain. Though the vessel was likely now emptied of its horrors, the group decided to return to the Ice Breaker and have a more substantial force go back to strip the ship of any resources that might prove useful.

Next
[Session 04](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2004.md)