---
date: 2020-05-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 7

As the Ice Breaker sped across the ice for another stretch of downtime, the party took some time to themselves. With their current project halfway complete, Sal did some light eavesdropping on the goings-on with the crew at large. It became apparent that, following Mendelain’s assurances, most of the crew had accepted that there was no vampire aboard. Greg, however, remained unconvinced and had gone so far as to imply that Mendelain might be the vampire. Hoping to talk some sense into him, Sal went to speak with Greg. They explained to him that everyone had been in direct sunlight recently, aside from Sir Grey who never left his armour. Rather than being comforted, Greg fixated on Sir Grey as the possible vampire and could only be calmed by Sal offering to investigate.

Pulling Mendelain aside, Sal gave him the rundown. He told them that he had asked his god directly about the matter and there was no vampire onboard the Ice Breaker. They took that as sufficient proof but it didn’t necessarily rule out anyone else being a non-vampiric undead creature. The two made plans to cast a detection spell at dinner to see if they could find anything odd. Strangely, Yugo pinged Mendelain’s spell as an undead. Mendelain had no explanation for this but Sal realized that it must be his patron. They gave Mendelain the half-truth that Yugo had a familiar who must be the undead before going to speak to Yugo privately. He had been under the impression that the rat was a fiend and this information troubled him, though he ultimately dismissed it as a misidentification.

Near the end of the week, Jeremiah called the party to his chambers to inform them of what he had seen in the astrolabe. The location they were approaching was a site of the Blood War - the unending conflict between demons and devils. Jeremiah could give no specific details on the scale of its involvement in the war but he provided a few uncommon magic items to assist the party.

Much like the bow of the ship near the corpse of the frost giant, just the peak of a mountain breeched the ice at their destination, with a crumbling monastery set into it. The symbology on the front doors, which were themselves still relatively intact, had been worn to the point of being almost completely unreadable. Inside, the party found a set of opposing barricades had been set up, one on the east side of the entrance hall and one on the west. Two centipedes and a rat were engaged in a conflict but scattered when the party arrived.

Through the door to the north, the party entered a room where several makeshift shrines had been erected. As they entered the room, a skeletal being motioned the party closer. Confused, they did so with some caution. As soon as Mendelain was near one of the shrines, the skeletal creature unsuccessfully attempted to push him into it. Taking this as a hostile action, the party retaliated, shattering the skeleton into bones. Once they were no longer under threat, they examined the shrines. Several of them were to Asmodeus, with the few that misspelled the name engineered to set off traps when touched. The party had no explanation for the setup so they continued deeper into the monastery.

Nearby, they encountered an imp sitting at a desk. The nameplate on its surface proclaimed that he was Ifrit, of the First Hell Bank of Rose Mountain Monastery. He attempted to offer the party wealth, information, or powerful items in exchange for their souls. When the party asked what kind of information he had, he clarified that it was limited to the monastery only, as the rest of the world had been destroyed. Deciding that they were not particularly interested, the party continued on to the north. A more elaborate barricade resembling the battlements of a tower had been set up here with an imp play-acting its defense when the party arrived. The imp, Pimperel, beseeched the party to help him practice by attacking the fortification. Agreeing to humour him, Dunkin, Vinny, and Mendelain were recruited as his troops while the rest of the party was the enemy.

On the enemy’s “approach”, Mary ended up falling through a trick tile in the floor that closed over her, effectively trapping her inside. Sal freed her but once this happened again, Mary tore up the floor to find the imp responsible for the prank, blasting him into non-existence. Once their “attack” on the tower was complete, the imp thanked the party heartily and said he would put in a good word with Asmodeus for them. When the party asked if they could meet the mighty lord of the Hells in person, he pointed them to the throne room.

The throne, it turned out, were just a chair with a cushion on it, though the room itself seemed to be in better shape than much of the monastery. As the party approached the imp who sat there, the imp whom Mary had blasted crawled out of an iron-banded chest in the back of the room. In recognition of their deeds so far, Asmodeus asked the party if they would be willing to help him thwart his rival, a demon lord named Guggin-Scrug who had made his name after the fall of the old Hells and Abyss. If the party could steal their regeneration chest, they would be able to win over the demons. The party agreed, heading toward the east side of the monastery.

Along the way, the party encountered an imp and a quasit who were at a stalemate. The imp was trying to escape the quasit without bringing down their armed forces while the quasit wanted to capture the imp. The party offered Korvias as a prisoner to the quasit instead as a prisoner exchange, which he agreed to. Korvias, with Sal following stealthily behind him, was taken directly to Guggin-Scrug himself. Much like the imp Asmodeus, Guggin-Scrug was a quasit on a makeshift throne. As Korvias was not a devil, Guggin-Scrug hoped to convince him to steal the souls contained in the devils’ bank in exchange for his freedom. Every few seconds while he spoke, Guggin-Scrug glanced at the same spot on the wall, which both Korvias and Sal picked up on easily. Noticing Sal nearby, Korvias distracted Guggin-Scrug with an impressive monologue during which Sal approached the wall.

A concealed archway there led into a small chamber with another quasit who Sal correctly deduced to be the real Guggin-Scrug and a chest. Sensing Sal’s intentions, Guggin-Scrug tried to protect the chest but ended up inside it in the ensuing chase, allowing Sal to simply pick up the chest and walk out of the room. When Sal sped by, the quasits attempted to unleash a trap of black sludge but, as no one was near the doors, both adventurers were able to escape quite easily by jumping over the sludge.

Asmodeus was pleased by how quickly they had solved the problem and offered the party titles in his court. When they inquired about getting the magic items held in the bank, he said he would give them to the party so long as they dealt with the interloper at the center of the monastery. An arcanaloth named Kijenor had taken up residence there during the apocalypse and Asmodeus wanted him gone. The party asked about this apocalypse, learning that it had happened hundreds of thousands of years ago when the ice had engulfed the world.

Heading into the center of the monastery by way of some loose tiles on the roof of the building, the party entered a small room covered in broken magical foci and chalk circles. Kijenor, who was willing to speak with the party, explained that he had been being annoyed by the petty squabbles of the imps and quasits since he arrived. The debris in the room were the remnants of his attempts to teleport back to Gehenna but the dampening properties of the ice had prevented him from doing so, causing his magic to eventually burn out.

After some negotiation, the party convinced Kijenor to come with them on the Ice Breaker in exchange for some fragments of magical power from Eve to allow him to rebuild his magical reserves. With his animated armour guard in tow, the party plus one returned to the ship laden with magical items. Jeremiah was unimpressed with the party picking up yet another addition of the crew but given that fiends had no need to eat and the fact that Kijenor had eons of magical knowledge, Jeremiah was willing to allow him aboard after some employment contract negotiations were complete.

While the two spoke, the party socialized with the crew, with Sal going so far as to try to help Sir Grey assuage people’s suspicions about him. As expected, he dismissed their help outright leaving Sal to decide he would face the consequences of that alone. Instead, they went to instill morals into Cornelia, having recently picked up the yeti language enough to communicate with her properly. Meanwhile, another coven meeting was in progress. Jasmine informed her fellow members, Eve and Mary, that their coven would only last three more weeks, as that was the ordained time of her death and advised them of her wishes after her death. On a happier note, their little tree had borne more fruit, allowing them to gain several more spellfruit that they could use and distribute to the party for use on their next outing.

Next
[Session 08](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2008.md)