---
date: 2020-04-19
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 4

With the Crimson Streak in tow, Jeremiah set out to examine the degraded mechanical vessel. Meanwhile, the party convened with Mysterium Incorporeal to discuss containment measures for the samples of flesh that Jeremiah would no doubt return with. Unfortunately, despite Eve, Korvias, and Mary’s direct experiences with what they suspected had infested the locations they had explored thus far, none of them had any real understanding of what its capabilities. In the end it was decided that likely the safest route forward would be to not take any onboard.

Spurred by the conversation, Sal and Vindalf took the rare opportunity presented by Jeremiah’s absence to examine the security under which the current sample was being kept. They discovered that the archmage had erected wards around his workroom which, though encouraging in itself, meant that going inside would almost certainly alert Jeremiah to the presence of intruders in his quarters.

As they returned, Eve crossed over to the clockwork ship to speak to Jeremiah directly on the matter. He dismissed her concerns, saying that the magic he’d placed on his cabin would withstand just about anything. Gauss confirmed that he was likely right, though he wasn’t pleased by the idea of the Ice Breaker being at risk from the Flesh. Eve asked him to keep an eye on what Jeremiah was doing, if possible. Once a suitable sample had been excavated from the ship, it was decided that there was not much worth salvaging from the vessel and the Ice Breaker sailed onward.

Over the course of the next week, the seas (so to speak) were empty of anything of note, allowing the party to take some time off. Mendelain continued to sharpen his cooking skills, Nova worked at teaching Vinny Common, Korvias and Eve socialized with the crew, and Mary leaped into pit fighting much to the surprise of the rest of the crew. Late in the night at the beginning of the next week, rather than something strange originating outside the ship, an incident broke out aboard the Ice Breaker.

One of the sailors had been bitten by a rat, sparking concerns among the crew about a possible pest problem. The party was quick to act, with Sal and Eve searching the decks for any signs of the creature while Mendelain sought to locate the rat with divine aid. Curiously, his god could not determine whether or not it was actually a rat but implied that it was searching for a specific person. In combination with a spell to locate animals failing to work on it, suspicions grew that it might not truly be an animal at all. Eventually, Mendelain pinned its locate down to the storage area of the common deck. When Sal went to retrieve it, they found that the rat had telepathic abilities. Once Sal had promised not to tell anyone about the rat’s nature, it revealed that it was trying to return to Yugo, as they had some type of patron-protégé arrangement on which the rat was loath to elaborate.

Despite a confrontation with Korvias, who between the statements made by Mara via Mendelain and the recent contact with the Flesh, was convinced that it was a potentially dangerous creature, Sal managed to smuggle the rat back to Yugo. The bard explained that he had never been a particularly skilled musician but the rat had a deep well of talent for the arts. So, from under his hat, the rat was responsible for all of his compositions. He swore Sal to secrecy, which they agreed to.

A week later, the lookout caught sight of a black pillar rising up from the plane of flat ice. Without needing to be notified of its presence, Jeremiah had come up to watch the ship’s approach, claiming that it gave off a significant aura of magic of which he was keen to discover the source. His intensity worried the party but there was little they could do but comply with his demand. The obelisk was made of unblemished obsidian, with only one place where the stone was not perfectly smooth - the phrase “Light only breeds shadow” carved next to a doorway that led inside.

Within the obelisk, there were no sources of light aside from a dim purple flame held under a glass hemisphere. No warmth emanated from the fire and approaching it caused the shadows of the party to act out scenes of death. Although it was quite disturbing, there appeared to be no immediate danger posed by the flame, leading the party to continue into the next room. It was just barely brighter in this room, lined with featureless statues each with a candle set at its feet. Shadows danced on the statues from the candlelight until the room was entered. As each person stepped inside, a candle went out. As the fifth candle was snuffed out, the remaining shadows sprung to life and attacked. Before they could do any harm, Mendelain summoned the radiant light of his magic, instantly discorporating the shadows.

Increasingly disconcerted, the party went north, where the flat obsidian had been carved into once again. Figures reaching toward the sun were depicted along all four walls of the room and a beam of blue light shone down. Eve stepped into the light, causing it to turn paradoxically into a pillar of darkness as a dire voice made the command “Seek not the warmth of the light. Grasp the cool hand of the dark and be one.” Nothing further resulted directly, though there were some concerns that the voice might have laid down some sort of curse. In the adjoining room, the party found a body. An amulet with a symbol of Valkur around the corpse’s neck marked them as likely a member of the doomed expedition of the captain whose ship laid beneath the ice near the fallen body of the giant.

After an encounter with a pair of gelatinous cubes and a room where the floor sunk beneath the party’s feet, the group returned to the statue room to try the door at its opposite end. It led to a long hallway where a figure stood motionless. When it didn’t respond to conversation, Mary unleashed a blast of magic which shattered the mirror at the other side. It had only been a reflection of the first person to enter the room. Further exploration led the party to a set of stairs which led them to another floor.

As they climbed, the stone of the obelisk became flecked with spots of colour reminiscent of the night sky. Its clear lines became less certain, making it seem as though the ceiling was the endless expanse of night. At the top of the stairs, the party found a room where someone had draped themself over an orb of light. The woman spoke, saying that she wanted the party to confirm that they knew the way before proceeding. She spoke her questions cryptically, but the party correctly answered each riddle, satisfying the woman and causing the door out of the room to appear.

The party stopped short, however, at a deep pit which split the next room. Mendelain jumped across it without much difficulty, but in landing triggered a trap which caused a howl of wind to begin blowing up from the pit. Korvias, hoping to disperse some of the wind, leapt across the pit and opened the door at the other side, but the strength of the wind was so great that both he and Mendelain were swept away. Eve, Mary, and Sal took one of the other doors out of the path of the wind with the hope that they could meet up with Korvias and Mendelain later.

Mendelain and Korvias were battered by the wind but they managed to make use of its speed to get through the maze of corridors to a point where they were out of its grasp before they could be hurt too badly. They discovered a staircase nearby but didn’t want to head up to parts unknown without the rest of the party. Both groups navigated the floor until they came across a room that appeared to house a sheer mountainside cliff.

Although it couldn’t possibly be physically there, to all the party’s senses it was entirely real. Korvias and Sal were caught in the grip of an enchantment that compelled them to fling themselves off the cliff. Luckily, Korvias was intercepted by Mary but Sal moved too quickly for the rest of the party. As they hit the floor of the room only moments later, it became clear that the cliff was merely an illusion, though that did little to mitigate the fact that the fall did hurt. Eve dispelled the illusion, allowing the party to regroup and return to the stairs.

The third floor was even more disorienting than the last, as the flecks of stars gave way to utter darkness and gravity loosened its grip on the party. By the time they realized that they could not tell floor from ceiling, it was too late. The thinning air gave them only minutes to navigate through the abyss before they suffocated, leaving them no choice but to hope they could either retreat or find an oasis in the dark ahead.

Next
[Session 05](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2005.md)