---
date: 2020-04-26
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 5

Despite the deceptive appearance of their surroundings, when the party reached out there were indeed walls surrounding them. So long as they kept to the walls, they could traverse the floor without too much difficulty. In fact, the reduced gravity allowed them to travel much faster than they would under normal circumstances. Following the right wall, the party found a small room marked only by the presence of a white gem embedded in the far wall. It gave off an aura of evocation magic, suggesting that it might be the artifact Jeremiah had sensed within the obelisk but prompting caution in approaching it. However, its range of activation was far enough out that Sal entering the room was enough for it to spring its trap.

A dense sphere of intense gravity begun to pull Sal in, the sheer force it exerted making being near it painful. Eve, who was holding the other end of Sal’s grappling hook, attempted to pull them back but was unable to counteract the black hole and was pulled into the room as well. With the end of the grappling hook free, Sal shot the hook toward the door frame. Its claws scratched the frame but didn’t take, though Mendelain was able to catch it. Thinking quickly, he conjured a radiant guardian to use as an immoveable anchor point around which to tie the rope, ensuring that Eve and Sal weren’t sucked into the sphere. After some difficulty, they were able to smash the gem, ending its magic and allowing them to escape.

Following the right wall out of the former gravity well led to a sizeable chamber where a cloaked figure visible only by their glowing eyes told the party flatly to leave the obelisk. In response to questioning, they were laconic on all matters except that they were a guardian of the seal placed in this room and they would not allow the party to proceed any further. Given their dire warnings, the party was inclined to leave the obelisk empty-handed but the realization that Jeremiah would simply send the Crimson Streak or Mysterium Incorporeal in if they returned with nothing gave them no choice but to battle the figure and its shadowy minions.

Their victory was hard-won, with the dwindling air making a formidable opponent even more so, but the party had a minute of remaining air once the last creature of shadow melted back into the cryptic depths of the obelisk. Behind the door it was protecting was a simply shelf on which a metallic sphere sat innocently. Taking the sphere and proceeding to the next door deposited the party on the endless expanse of ice they had become familiar with over the last weeks, not far from the Ice Breaker. In the light of the sun, Eve’s curse made itself known but after its initial damage she was able to dispel it at last.

Before delivering the sphere to Jeremiah, the party consulted Lavender Larold for the specifics of what they had found. They determined that the sphere was a navigational tool that had been made to circumvent the interference with various spells that Jeremiah and Larold had discovered prior. Jeremiah, for his part, was as worryingly elated as he had been when he’d ordered the party to retrieve the sphere, heading into his cabin the moment the sphere was in his possession. Eve, hoping to prevent the descent into obsession that no doubt Jebediah Mann had undergone as the Flesh sunk its claws into him, insisted on speaking with him once he had finished identifying the sphere himself. He dismissed her concerns, as he had already lost interest in the sample the party had provided when it shriveled up and consigned it to storage until it could be disposed of.

Once Eve was dismissed, Hale was summoned for a briefing on the nature of the sphere. Sal, listening in, was troubled by the fact that he would rather have Hale visit him every day to receive the sphere’s navigational information than relinquish it but none of the party could act on it without revealing that Sal had been eavesdropping. With nothing else to be done, Eve headed belowdeck to remove the sample of flesh that Jeremiah had mentioned. Although the storage compartment was fairly full, the box was immediately noticeable by a worrying wetness that had gathered at its edges. Inside was a mass of flesh and bone that appeared disturbingly fresh.

Horrified, Eve consulted the party and Yugo privately, much to Yugo’s protest as he insisted they inform Hale immediately. When speculation turned to the possibility that someone had been killed and replaced by a doppelganger, Mendelain turned to divination once again to establish what had happened. Some had, indeed, been replaced by a fleshy double. With only a few questions remaining, the party named some possible suspects - Jeremiah and the crew members he had enlisted to move the box into the cargo hold - but they were all confirmed to be themselves. Mara was able to narrow it down to a human of the non-commissioned officers before the connection between her and Mendelain faded.

Yugo, unable to remain calm any longer, had run off to inform Hale of what had happened. With the safety of his crew under threat and one already dead, Hale was even less inclined to keep the matter under wraps while it was investigated. He demanded that all onboard come to the main deck for interrogation. After a headcount, he realized that only 48 of the 50 regular sailors were accounted for - both Lamorel and Thordin were missing. The party offered to search the lower decks for the missing people which Hale consented to after being talked down from the hysteria that was quickly gripping him.

In the sailor’s quarters, the party found a sailor lying motionless on his hammock, bleeding from a head wound. After some healing, the party moved him to the main deck where he could recover while they swept the deck for the doppelganger. An intensive search revealed no one anywhere on the ship aside from the gathered officers and crew on the main deck. With no other leads, the party returned to Hale. He was itching to interrogate Thorden, convinced that he was the doppelganger and intending to carry out the execution then and there. Before things could escalate to murder without any proof of his culpability, Sal was able to convince him to wait until morning, when Mendelain would be able to contact his god again. Hale was clearly displeased with doing so but but was willing to wait at least over night for confirmation, locking Thorden in the brig under guard until then.

A few hours into the party’s rest, they realized that Mendelain had one other divination at his disposal that, though it would take some time to cast, could be cast as a ritual and get answer sooner than next light. Eleven minutes later, they were informed that the doppelganger was located in the brig, making its stolen identity clear. Armed with this knowledge, Korvias and Sal killed the doppelganger while the rest of the party informed Hale what they had discovered. With the immediate danger averted, they searched for Thorden’s remains in the sailor’s quarters, finding that what was left of his body had been stuffed into a crate just as Lamorel’s had been. Curiously, it was clear that some sort of animal had eaten some of the flesh though they could find no such creatures aboard the ship.

Uneasily, life on the ship returned to normal. It was clear, however, that things would be different from here on out; suspicions like the ones roused by the appearance of the doppelganger were not easily quelled.

Next
[Session 06](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2006.md)