---
date: 2020-03-29
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 1

Twelve years have passed since the defeat of Jebediah Mann. In that time, the inheritors have come to call the hamlet home, having forged bonds with the initially standoffish people of the hamlet through their efforts to protect them during Jebediah’s reign of terror. Vyrana moved her family from the crumbling monastery in the north where she had trained as a monk to the warmer climes of the hamlet and the rest of the party had set about making the former den of horrors that was the estate liveable after many years of neglect.

The changes of those first few years were almost overwhelming in contrast to the stagnation that had seemed impossible to alter. Barold, the owner of the inn, and Gregor, the blacksmith, both attempted to take official custody of Nova, a situation that led from acquaintanceship to courtship to their marriage several years later. Trade routes were re-opened with neighbouring towns, with the exception of the nearest village where the residents had been mysteriously massacred during the hamlet’s period of isolation. Following the disappearance of the caretaker, Josiah found his calling as a mailman when he wasn’t being bothered by Mary’s insistence that he made her soup. Despite how odd a group the inheritors were, they had found an ideal life among the people of the hamlet.

But, the years of peaceful life came to a close with the arrival of a missive from archmage and scholar Jeremiah Manswell. With the patronage of the Blue Moon University, he was attempting an undertaking that had been neither accomplished nor considered in recorded history - an expedition to the edge of the known world to see what lay beyond it. Salamander, Vyrana’s eldest child, and Nova were keen to join the ranks of the expedition that would make history, and Eve, Mary, and Korvias were to accompany them both to keep them out of trouble and to pursue the call to adventure.

Barold and Gregor graciously offered to take the party on the weeks-long trek to the launching point of the expedition, ensuring that they would arrive with time to spare. After a brief debacle wherein Mary attempted to kidnap Josiah and bring him along with her, the party was ready to embark. The journey was uneventful, aside from brief interactions with other travelers which served to break up the monotony. With a half-day remaining before the departure of the expedition, the wagon crested over the hill to reveal a number of hastily constructed buildings in place to support the massive undertaking Jeremiah Manswell had commissioned.

At the very edge of the world was an interminable sheet of ice, climbing to unknown heights. A marvel of engineering and magic had been set up to facilitate moving people and supplies to the top of the ice shelf, where the ship awaited. Distracted by the scale of the operation, Gregor failed to notice another cart on the path and the two vehicles had a minor crash. The driver of the other wagon took it in stride, since he was planning to leave it behind anyway. He introduced himself as Mendelain, a cleric who had come parts unknown alone to join the expedition. As he had no one to help him with his supplies, the party offered to assist him.

The long line of carts to be hoisted up the ice shelf afforded the party some time for last-minute preparations, which they completed a scant hour before it was time for them to be brought up to the ship. It was much larger than a seafaring vessel and yet surprisingly sturdy for its size. As they finished unloading their provisions, a bard named Yugo approached the party and promised them a tour of the Ice Breaker once they came aboard. After a tearful goodbye with the Smith-Manns (which was rather awkward for Mendelain), the party embarked onto the Ice Breaker.

As soon as they were off the gangplank, the party noticed that the biting winds had warmed to a manageable temperature, which Yugo cheerfully explained was thanks to enchantments set up to mitigate the freezing conditions to allow the crew of the ship to operate it without getting frostbite. He subsequently showed the party around, introducing them to the commissioned officers, a few of the sailors, and the two other adventuring parties who has signed up for the expedition - the Crimson Streak and Mysterium Incorporeal.

The Crimson Streak were led by a knight named Sir Gray who didn’t even bother addressing the party, leaving the cleric Julian to inform them that they would prefer to be left alone by the rabble. Mysterium Incorporeal were much more friendly, happy to talk with the party until the ship took off. The three groups of adventurers had been hired to protect the ship from any dangers it encountered in the untamed wilderness but until such a threat arose, they were free to spend their time as they wished. While Mendelain and Sal played dragonchess badly, the rest of the group conversed with Bjork the cook, learning that he would gladly accept the meat of any creatures they might fight to boost the stores of food.

Once they reconvened, the whole party participated in bothering the Crimson Streak, not impressed with their poor attitude. However, they were interrupted by a commotion abovedeck, where the crewmember in the crow’s nest had caught sight of approaching vessels. A motley pirate crew of goblins and hobgoblins was gaining on the ship thanks to their slimmer ships. Without too much difficulty, the party repelled their attempt to scuttle the Ice Breaker. Just slightly too late, the Crimson Streak arrived with the excuse that they had to don their armour before coming to help. Although the party wasn’t inclined to believe their intentions were sincere, Mendelain gleaned that most of the party sans their leader did genuinely want to help but were likely prevented from doing so by their leader’s persnickety temperament.

Back belowdeck, the party prepared for dinner, talking with Mysterium Incorporeal about the battle. They were not much for fighting but they were happy to celebrate the party’s victory with Yugo, who immediately set to work embellishing the story for his eventual tale of the marvels of the expedition. The ship’s officers slowly trickled in to the mess hall, including a very distracted Jeremiah still working on his scholarly pursuits and an exceedingly old elven woman fully aware of the hour of her own death named Jasmine, who hit it off immediately with Mary.

Following the hearty meal, the adventurers and the officers prepared for a night’s rest while the day sailing crew traded off with the reduced evening crew, each looking with anticipation toward the second day of their enterprise.

Next
[Session 02](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2002.md)