---
date: 2020-04-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd2
---
# Session 2

Breakfast the next morning was briefly interrupted by the appearance of Jeremiah Manswell, who requested Lavender Larold’s assistance in verifying the results of some experiments he had been undertaking. Sal, curious about what these experiments might be, followed after the pair to see if they could overhear anything interesting. Unfortunately, they only heard the end of the conversation, which was not particularly illuminating. Even questioning by the rest of Mysterium Incorporeal did not prove fruitful, as Lavender insisted that they would prefer to keep the matter private for the time being.

After the meal was over, Sal climbed the rigging to the crow’s nest, where they spoke to the lookout. During their conversation, he spotted something on the horizon. Given that the eerily flat landscape of ice hadn’t had so much as an uneven surface so far, the presence of such a large feature was notable. Mysterium Incorporeal was intrigued by the news, already discussing various theories. As was becoming typical, Sir Grey and Julian headed off to change into appropriate armour. Sergei and Hope Terrence Prudence were left to their own devices, providing an opportunity for the party to speak with them. Like Julian, neither of the two stayed with Sir Grey out of loyalty but rather were obligated to him in some regard. However, Sir Grey returned before the conversation could go much further.

All the while, the ship had been approaching the unprecedented thing in the distance. When the party headed abovedeck as a group, it became clear that what they were rapidly nearing was a giant in repose, one arm propping their body up on the ice. The closer the Ice Break came, the more apparent it was that the giant had died long ago but the freezing wind and snow of their environment had frozen their body into a tableau. The Crimson Streak, seeing that there was no forthcoming battle, returned belowdeck, while the party and Mysterium Incorporeal headed out to examine the corpse.

The giant was leagues larger than any giant the party had ever encountered. According to myth, giants were once rulers of the cosmos, large enough to stride from one planet to another. The story was likely apocryphal but the giant before them suggested that some grain of truth had spawned that myth. A large gash had been cut in the giant’s side and they were holding the stern-side cabin of a sailing ship under their outstretched arm. The party decided to investigate the cabin of the ship and Mysterium Incorporeal begun to climb up the side of the giant to investigate it from above.

From the angle of the cabin, it was possible that an entire ship existed beneath the icy expanse below, but there was no way to be certain, as the ice was opaque. Breaking the ice that had encased the door to the cabin revealed a scene of absolute disarray. A body was present among the chaos, having been crushed by one of the falling objects. All that remained of use was several documents outlining the crew manifest, provisions, and other minutiae, as well as the captain’s journal which lamented the folly of his expedition.

Returning to ground level, the party examined the wound in the giant’s side. Looking through it, most of the internal organs of the body had been gouged out with tooth and claw, though not in a manner that suggested it had been eaten by scavengers. Rather, it created a path into the corpse that the party proceeded to follow. In the chest cavity, a simple setup for sleeping had been arranged, confirming that the corpse had been repurposed into a living space.

Eventually, around the upper torso, the party encountered several yetis who were resting in the area. Although the party considered communicating with them, none of them were familiar with the language nor could they magically translate. Without any way to speak to the yetis, hostilities broke out. In the same area, the figurehead of a ship had been lodged and a few crates of supplies, presumably from the doomed venture, remained for the party to collect.

As the party explored the other side of the torso, they encountered a fleshy growth that still pulsed with life despite the many years that the giant had lain dead. Having prior experiences with the Flesh of the World, there were some concerns among those of the party who had lived in the hamlet that it might be related but they couldn’t come to a conclusive decision. Mendelain, who had not had those experiences, was first confused and then disgusted by the explanation of what exactly the outer crust of the world surrounded.

The party encountered two more groups of yetis, the second of whom attempted to ambush the party from above, and another sailor of the ill-fated vessel whose journal suggested that the crew had run afoul of the yetis while attempting to strip the corpse for rations. Once the whole body had been explored, the party set about collecting samples from the giant and the growth. They also collected one of the yetis to bring back to Bjork, who had asked the party for any interesting creatures they encountered that might be eaten. In the process, the party discovered the presence of a baby yeti. Feeling somewhat responsible for orphaning the child, they decided to take care of them, since the alternative would consign them to death.

Back on the Ice Breaker, Jeremiah expressed some concerns at the baby being another mouth to feed, but with the party’s assurances that they would arrange to feed them with magically-conjured food, he acquiesced. Much more interesting to him was the sample of the growing flesh they had found inside the giant. When the party alluded to having encountered something similar, he asked for them to join him in his quarters to explain themselves. He listened to their story mostly impassively, though he showed signs of discomfort to the trained eye. He thanked the party and ushered them out, at which point Eve privately asked him why he had looked so concerned. It turned out that he was distantly related to the house of Mann and hearing of the fate of Jebediah Mann, despite the fact that they’d never met, had put him ill-at-ease. Eve advised him to be careful in his studies of the flesh, given that it had led to the demise of Jebediah before him.

Back in the common area, the baby yeti was being introduced to the other adventurers. Nova in particular was delighted by the fact that the baby was basically just a smaller, fluffier version of Athena. Sir Grey, on the other hand, distrusted the baby because he has no redeeming qualities. The excitement even drew Sohcahtoa out, who seemed weary down to her bones but enjoyed seeing the little yeti. Eve, concerned about her well-being, went to talk to her and offered to lend an ear to her bottled-up complaints about Jeremiah’s treatment of her as an assistant. Meanwhile, Mendelain coped poorly with learned the true nature of the world, going so far as to divine the future of their encounters with the Flesh, learning to his chagrin that it was likely to happen again.

Over dinner, the party discussed names for the baby, settling on Cornelia, whom Sal had decided to take primary responsibility for. After being teased by Nova about their mothers being grandparents, they realized that they should probably check in with them. Mendelain, who had met Barold and Gregor briefly, could send a message to them and thus communicate with Carol and Vyrana. He agreed to try to contact Barold in the morning. Mary spoke with Jasmine once again, learning that she was cultivating a plant that could produce goodberries without the need to cast the spell daily, which would likely come in handy in feeding Cornelia.

In the morning, Mendelain and Sal headed out of the main dining area for some privacy, as Korvias was trying to get Dunkin and Sherlock to become friends in the main common space and both a rambunctious goat and a rambunctious dog needed a certain amount of space. When he attempted to send the message, Mendelain was unable to make a connection with Barold, nor with Sal when he tried a closer target. Seeing what they were doing, Lavender approached the two and explained what they and Jeremiah had discovered. Magical communication and teleportation did not function out on the ice, though theoretically once the reached the next disk in the ice like the one they had all lived in, they should be able to establish a means of teleportation from one to another at the very least.

Later that day, fed up with his rudeness, Sal challenged Sir Grey to a duel. At first, Sir Grey scoffed at the very idea of a peasant seeking a duel against a nobleman, but as Sal was technically an heir to the house of Mann, he had no choice but to honour their challenge. He told them to meet him on the main deck when they were ready and to expect to be trounced by his superior skill.

Next
[Session 03](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%202%20-%20A%20Frigid%20Expedition/Session%2003.md)