---
date: 2023-04-30
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/cv
---
# Session 8

Unnatural glass flowed into smooth sandstone at the threshold of the eighth floor. Something about its appearance recalled the diorama of the temple in which the young band of adventurers had found the Sever-Soul blade. Nailed to the first door - which was notable absent of any symbology hinting at the identity of its guardian - was a note from Scavenger. She was not going to take the risk of setting foot into the temple again but she provided what information she knew (for the usual fee, of course).

Kott was the guardian of the Sever-Soul blade in the days before Castle Void was constructed. He had long since become immortal so rather than eliminating him, the trio were able to neutralize him long enough to cut the temple out of reality and thus twist his position as guardian to their ends of keeping the blade out of the wrong hands. Scavenger warned the party that he would destroy any intruders he thought to be a serious threat but that his propensity to talk might be used against him.

Beyond the door was a room that housed a crumbling fountain. The mosaic tiles that rimmed its crowning depicting mythic iconography of a great hero of ages past. The moment the party was through the door, Kott's voice greeted them. It had been many years since he'd had visitors.

The adventurers headed through a door to the east, which seemed to enter into a room where some manner of trap had already been sprung, as the raised tile in the center of the room had been clearly depressed. However, this was merely a misdirect from the true mechanism of the trap: an eye sigil at floor level that activated a bed of spikes above. Fortunately, Carmilla was able to pick the lock on the other side of the room and allow herself and Kill-sin to escape.

On the other side was a room that formerly was held up by four pillars. One of them had broken after years of neglect, revealing a thin tube emiting a strange gas which the party summarily covered up. A golden skull sat on a raised plinth in the middle of the room. Recalling what had just happened, Carmilla was careful to swap the skull for something of equal weight to avoid setting off any traps. Thus, she successfully retrieved the skull... which turned out to be a flameskull that she and Kill-sin had to knockout and place in a jar.

To the north lay a sarcophagus. Its design was not particularly ornate but clutched in the hands of the lid was a rod. Removing it caused the sarcophagus' occupant to spring to life and white sand to begin filling the room. The party quickly took care of the mummy and replaced the rod, affording them the time necessary to whittle a replacement for the rod out of the handle of a pickaxe.

South through the chamber that held to flameskull was a thin hallway where two pillars of rolling blades moved back and forth through the space. Notably in the center of the room where the pillars crossed paths, they slowed down. The party assumed this was due to friction between the two pillars but they soon discovered that a gelatinous cube was blocking the way when they tried to fly through the hall. The cube itself was not much of a danger and, once it was eliminated, they were able to turn off the contraption from the other side.

A stone statue whose eyes followed the party's movements through the space holding a chest was the only thing of note in this room. To the east was another mosaic room, depicting the night sky filled with numerous unfamiliar constellations. Like much of the temple, the room was cracked enough to glimpse the void between worlds beyond. A small hole in the wall revealed some manner of sphere. Observing it prompted a voice to state that the definition of ownership was the ability to destroy something. The sphere then disappeared.

Back through the primary fountain room, the party came upon a dock leading out into the void. Kott's voice returned to explain that in the days that temple was in service it had been connected to an underground river. Carmilla responded to Kott's commentary for the first time and realized that whatever spell he was using allowed two-way communication. She asked him why he had been guarding the Sever-Soul blade to begin with, rather than using it. Kott said that he had at that time conquered the stars themselves and had no use for it. When asked if he would be interested in using it now, he simply laughed.

From here, the adventurers headed south to a room that had clearly taken the brunt of the void's decay. A strange creature with stars in its mouth was present in this room, consuming tendrils of the void as they snaked into the room. It introduced itself as Woe when prompted and wore a circular key around its neck. Carmilla, wishing to avoid a fight, asked Kott if he would be willing to release the creature if she freed him from his guardianship over the blade. He was. Carmilla turned this promise to Woe and convinced it to give up the key, promising that she would be back to free it shortly.

Continuing south, the party found a small library formed of a row of scroll nooks. The librarians spoke a language too ancient to facilitate conversation and Carmilla rightly presumed that taking anything from the library was unlikely to sit well with Kott. An adjacent room held a prisoner - the oarsman of the boat they had seen in the dock - but likewise Carmilla let him be in order to ingratiate herself with Kott.

On the other side of the splintering room Woe tended was a door leading to another pillar room. The echo of a conversation between the three adventurers who had plundered the temple was recorded here, drawing the party's attention away from the walls long enough for a multitude of void figures to manifest around them. Rather than harming them physically, they stole the words from the party's minds to repeat a cacophany of words. In the following silence, a locket clattered loudly to the ground. Within was an image of the trio and a short engraving. The party returned to the beginning of the floor to leave the locket for Scavenger.

On their way, Kill-sin realized that as a consequence of the psychic attack he was unable to speak. Unlike Carmilla, he didn't need to speak to fight so they decided to wait until Carmilla could prepare a remove curse spell to address it. The middle path from the fountain room was all that remained unexplored. Its construction was immediately more grandiose than the others, with a soaring ceiling showing a starry sky and high pillars placed through the entire hall. When he ruled much of the known universe, Kott explained, some of the most dangerous creatures in existence had guarded this place. Now, there was only one.

The horror from beyond the stars that slunk down through the broken crystal representing the sun may have been the least of its kind but it was no pushover. Only by imbuing Kill-sin's weapon with holy light did they manage to kill the creature. All that lay between them and Kott was a single chamber, host to a grand ziggurat blanketed in white ash. A handful of corpse soldiers stood sentinel but did nothing to prevent the party's approach.

Carmilla questioned Kott on the nature of the ziggurat and he explained that he had always been a generous emperor. Those who proved their worth could use the altars at the summit of the ziggurat to transfer power from those lesser than them. At the other end of the room was the sigil-door which depicted a short figure - evidently Kott - astride the world. Its two keys appeared to be the rod and the circular gem in the party's possession.

Before heading inside, the party took a quick rest during which Carmilla made a proposal to Kott. If they were to fight, she and Kill-sin would surely lose, but they could offer him something that was worth him sparing their lives: freedom from his imprisonment. Using the Sever-Soul blade, she could cut the ties that bound him. Kott admitted his interest but had little reason to trust strange interlopers. Carmilla offered to be placed under a geas to ensure she did so. Kott made no explicit agreement at this point, saying that such decisions were better made face-to-face.

Kill-sin, who had been listening to their conversation, quickly made his discomfort with this idea clear. Kott was clearly a madman and bargaining with him was likely to only result in trouble, both for them personally and the world at large. Carmilla countered that it was wiser for them to settle this encounter peacefully and then, once Kott was freed, use the Sever-Soul blade to ensure he did not resume his reign of terror over the world. Kill-sin was not entirely pleased with this course of action but he could not fight Kott alone, so he deferred to her judgment.

Despite all the grandeur of his temple, Kott awaited the party in a room empty of everything but himself. He was eager to speak with other beings in person after years of nothin but his own company. In order to better facilitate an uninterrupted conversation, he stopped time around himself and Carmilla and posed a question: how would she fight against someone that can rend reality itself?

Tasura had cut everything away except his devotion, filing himself down until nothing of the mortal man he once was existed - including that mortality. He guarded the Sever-Soul blade, the only weapon that might kill him, jealously. Carmilla answered that no door was impregnable. She said that all they need do was obtain the blade and all the rest would follow.

Kott was amused by her confidence but suggested that she would be better served by ensuring she could stand against Tasura. Using the ritual athame he possessed, one could perform the ritual for which the ziggurat outside had been constructed. One need only bathe it in the black fire of the braizer to prepare it.

He offered the athame to her, handle first. Carmilla gave the matter serious thought. Kill-sin had, after all, done nothing but aid her and without his help she would never have reached this precipice of victory. On the other, restoring him to life after the ritual would be easily accomplished. Carmilla posed a question to Kill-sin himself: did he trust her? Kill-sin responded that she had never given him reason not to. With that answer in mind, she told Kott to prepare him for the ritual.

Over Kill-sin's unconscious body, laid on the altar blanketed in ash, Carmilla christened him as sufferer of the last death and plunged the consecrated athame into his heart. She then turned it on herself, opening the conduit through which Kill-sin's strength flowed to her. Once the ritual was complete, Carmilla revive Kill-sin with little more than a wave of her hand. He was disoriented by the whirlwind of events and still unable to speak but it was clear from the look in his eyes that the trust he had professed mere moments ago had been utterly shattered.

Before Carmilla and Kott parted ways, Kott placed the geas that she had offered to bear on her, ensuring that she would keep her promise to free him from his position as guardian of the Sever-Soul blade. They would meet again once the dagger was in her possession. With that, he summarily ripped his own throat out to open the final door to the lowest floor of the castle, allowing Carmilla, with Kill-sin in tow, to descend to the heart of the void.

Next
[[Session 9]]