---
date: 2019-12-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 31

Before embarking unto planes unknown, the party made use of their presence in Fenlaur to do some shopping. First, the party visited Willy’s Magical Trinkets and discovered to their collective surprise that the charlatan had created an item that would actually be of use to Dell. Then, they made their way to Jacob’s establishment in the city to make a number of purchases from Valeria who was more than willing to overlook the poor way in which three-fourths of the party tended to treat her in exchange for the money they had acquired from Sathael’s tower. Kai took the opportunity to sell several of the less powerful swords in his possession to Fenlaur’s notoriously laconic blacksmith for a tidy sum of gold.

Once the party had availed themselves of the conveniences afforded by the capital city, Dell used his Helm of Teleportation to return them once more to Sathael’s tower. For, in her study, Sathael had constructed two portals – one to the dread realm of Thanatos and one that hitherto the party had not been able to determine the use of. Zaphigun’s letters, however, had shed light on the fact that it served as a means of transportation to Xualtacia.

On the other side of the portal, the party encountered a sight both familiar and strange. Many standing portals were monitored by a small number of people to deal with unwanted visitors but the nature of these guards was unlike anything the party had encountered before. A number of mind flayers stood in front of consoles covered in strange screens and controls, attended by thralls, but more peculiarly, two mechanical chassis stood inert in the eastern corner of the room, guarding the hallway out of the portal room. One of the mind flayers addressed the party, demanding to know who they were and what they were doing in Xualtacia. Initially, the party claimed that Sathael had sent them, leading the mind flayers to lower their guard until Dell summoned one of his Scouts and it became clear that the party was hostile.

In the course of the battle, the mind flayers wielded bizarre weapons that resembled Dell’s firearm superficially but seemed to fire bolts of pure radiant light. They also revealed to the party that the chassis were controllable in a way reminiscent of the colossus, completely protecting their occupant from harm while allowing them to use its full arsenal of weaponry to attack. More troubling was the fact that both Kai and Tadhg were susceptible to the mind flayers’ mind blasts, rendering them stunned and effectively removing them from the battle until they were able to shake it off. Nonetheless, the party’s magic functioned just the same against the mechanical suits, allowing them to slowly destroy the armour and force the mind flayers to fight them un-augmented.

Once it became clear that no further reinforcements were forthcoming, the party examined their surroundings. Although Faustus was able to read the information on the glass displays, it was filled with incomprehensible jargon that not even Dell could decipher. As the party puzzled over the console, it begun ringing. Dell, compelled to answer it, caused the screen to project an illusory image of an illithid who introduced himself as Zaphigun in the stilted, digital voice of the translation program he was using. He admitted some surprise at their arrival, having worked to obfuscate his involvement with Sathael through his use of quality, but he was regardless intrigued at the prospect of meeting Dell. Dell was not keen on being cooperative given that Zaphigun had aided Sathael in her near-destruction of the world, leading Zaphigun to express his disappointment that his own kin would treat him in such a manner.

In the stunned silence that followed, Zaphigun re-introduced himself as Zaphigun Kardis Quelan Sifer Timbers, informing Dell that he was his great-grandson. Dell, having difficulty processing that idea, shut off the line of communication in favour of digging into the much more impersonal workings of the mechanical suits. The ones the mind flayers had used in battle were destroyed beyond recovery but one unit still in production made it clear that the interface was designed so that only illithids could pilot them.

Past the empty hangars, an Ulitharid and its thralls stood guard at the building’s exit. Being fewer in number than the guards at the portal, the party was able to deal with them quickly, leaving one of the thralls conscious as the illithid controlling them was killed, ending the direct line of control. Now that the party was no longer being attacked, they were able to take in the landscape before them. Intricate circuitry and neon lights marked the sprawling city of Xualtacia as utterly alien to the party, leaving them at a loss for how to navigate it and find Zaphigun.

Fortunately, Kai spotted another console nearby that displayed a map, accompanied by text labels when the screen was touched that allowed he, Tadhg, and translation from Faustus to determine the locations of “robot” production, thrall production, livestock, living quarters, and a library. Only one of these labels seemed to have no translation – “Ilsensine”. In the hopes of gleaning something useful from the thrall, the party created a telepathic link between themselves and the thrall. They did not respond to any attempt at communication, as an unfamiliar voice responded instead. It introduced itself as Ralayan. The party questioned whether it was this “Ilsensine” and Ralayan demurred, claiming that such a grand title would befit only the great mind of Zaphigun, creator of artificial time travel. The rest of the conversation was less helpful, consisting mostly of its plans to consume their minds and the party sniping back until the thrall’s head exploded, effectively ending the line of communication.

Tadhg wanted to go to thrall production next, holding hope that they might be able to free the thralls held there. The doors to thrall production were locked by a password but by sheer luck it responded to the first one the party tried: Ilsensine. Two mind flayers and a mind witness oversaw the maintenance of the thralls, flanked by three drones. They were caught unawares by the party and summarily defeated, allowing the thralls to at least not be directly used against their will. The project of restoring them to consciousness would be one that Tadhg would begin once Zaphigun was neutralized.

On their way to Zaphigun’s citadel, the party stopped by the library. Its staff were not keen to help them until Dell made them change their tune. Rather than shelves of books, the library of Xualtacia was primarily a database of searchable information. Looking up Dell revealed a storied career to come in his future and corroborated Zaphigun’s statement that Dell was his great grandfather. Notably, the account of Dell’s time in Elihyel did not mention the battle with the colossus, which followed from the fact that Zaphigun had not interfered in that iteration of these events.

Zaphigun’s entry shed light on his motives for returning to this bygone era; much like Sathael he was an accomplished inventor and scholar who sought ancient methods of attaining immortality. However, Orcus was long dead in the time of Zaphigun’s life and thus he returned to a time when the Lord of Undeath still ruled. The party spent some time debating whether or not this meant that their victory against Orcus was guaranteed in light of this information, though their incomplete understanding of the mechanics at work led to no firm conclusion.

Information on Zaphigun’s artificial means of moving through time was available in the library as well but its complexity meant that copying it down would be the task of many hours at the very least. Faustus was intent to remain there for as long as the task required but the rest of party made it clear that doing so could wait until Zaphigun was no longer in play. Once Kai and Tadhg had unceremoniously removed Faustus from the premises, Dell lingered briefly in the library to command the librarians to destroy the information on time travel, recognizing how dangerous such knowledge would be in the hands of an archdevil.

In the northwest quarter of Xualtacia loomed the edifice of Zaphigun’s citadel. Its door opened automatically at the party’s approach, leading into two pristine hallways that wound north- and southeast from the lobby, presumably to the same destination. On a whim, the party took the north path, the doors once again opening in response to their presence. The eerie chamber held what appeared to be a large brain, suspended above by wiring and unknown machinery, but Dell’s gift of truesight bestowed by the gods of Elihyel cut through the illusion even at this distance, revealing an alien yet draconic creature. Realizing that the game was up, it dropped the illusion and engaged the party in combat. Although it had powers incomparable to the dragons the party had yet encountered, it was younger by far than Vezira or the shadow dragon of Peregrine Mill and fell before the party’s onslaught.

The two diverging hallways indeed wrapped around to one main path, ended by a set of grand-double doors that no doubt took them closer to where Zaphigun awaited them, but strange red lights criss-crossed the hallway, making it evident the party would need to circumvent them in order to make it safely to the other side.

Next
[Session 32](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2032.md)