---
date: 2019-09-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 21

Tadhg approached the boy, ensuring that he was alright. He was shaken but had been unharmed in the preceding battle. The party plainly saw the detriments of taking a child in tow through the unexplored tunnels beneath the town and decided the best course of action was to leave him in Victor’s care. As they led him to the small library where the wizard awaited them, Pluto told the adventurers that his two brothers were still being held captive by the cult. They promised to reunite the siblings before pressing onward. Beyond a sizeable storage room, a young orc was under close guard by two of the cult’s number. The warlocks attempted to fend off the party, though they were hardly a match for Kai and fell before his blade in a matter of seconds. Pluto’s brother hurried off to find the dragon and the wizard who awaited the party’s return.

Damp hallways where water had settled in wells in the stone led them shortly to a door behind which two voices could be heard. They were discussing not the dark rituals of sacrifice to the great beast of the sea nor even exchanging seafood recipes - they were debating the terms of a lawsuit. Kai bypassed the locked door with his usual subtlety, interrupting the two. A second, more lavish lounge was occupied by three robed figures and an abishai. One of the figures rose to his feet, recognizing two of the party and addressing them as thieves who had murdered his brother in Elinsholm. Harold Alluva had intended to take his revenge through more unconventional avenues but took the opportunity to take the path of least resistance in killing them where they stood. The abishai had similarly suffered indignity at the hands of those who had voyaged across the ocean on the Sugar Gold and followed suit.

Unlike the guards who made up the lower echelons of the cult, the wizards of House Alluva had several tricks up their sleeves, including conjuring a shimmering wall of pure magical force that brought the fight to a standstill until creative circumventions caused the mage who had created it to lose its shape. Both the abishai and Harold Alluva fled before the party could finish them off, but they would not be bothering the group for some time. To the north, the four encountered the sleeping quarters of the headquarters alongside a room that sat on the cusp of the underground water source that had caused puddles to percolate throughout the maze of stone.

As though to make up for the lack of obstacles in the prior two rooms, the adjacent space was host to the captain of Corome’s contingent of guards. He was fixated on bringing the one who had killed the baron to justice, going so far as to use a prisoner of the cult as collateral to the party’s surrender. Like his subordinates, however, he can not stand up against the firepower of the adventurers. A small empty room lay to the southwest, adorned with a mural of a flood. From the cracks age had weathered into the intricate work, water dripped slowly to the smooth stone below. Further in, an illithid stood within a circle of arcane runes. He claimed that he had been trapped by members of the cult but that the party boasted three spellcasters did little to support his deception. The illithid remained reticent about his presence in Corome, only hinting that he had concerns that the cult’s activity would infringe on his kin in some manner. The party had little interest in wheedling the information out of him and simply slew the mindflayer, though Tadhg held on to his head for post-mortem questioning later.

After passing through a bloody ritual chamber, the group found the final child they had been looking for. The kenku was being watched, like his brother before him, by two cultists. Unlike that prior incident, these two guards were wise enough to flee at the party’s approach. With the hostage situation resolved, the party returned to the library to recuperate. Here, they broached the subject of Sathael with Tamaj, who was shocked to hear that she was alive. Once the party had recovered their strength, they delved deeper to the northern caverns, moving closer toward the shoreline of the town. Their progress was briefly impeded by a room with a glass floor beneath which dark water roiled. The glass was too fragile to allow them to cross to the door on the other side, forcing the four to go around to the west.

A single crystal ball had been placed on a pedestal in this room. This sight drew Tadhg in and they picked up the glass sphere before the rest of the party could warn them of the sharp spikes on the ceiling. When they removed it from the pedestal, the iron door they had entered from sealed itself and gravity was reversed in the room, causing Tadhg to go flying toward the ceiling and its trap. Fortunately, it only took until gravity righted itself for the rest of the party to destroy the door and rescue Tadhg. Unfortunately, the crystal ball was simply a cheap ball to deceive intruders. Avoiding another trap involving the cult’s treasury and bypassing another battle in the tea room with another timely surrender, the party made their way to a chamber where the last of the cult made their stand.

The priest who Faustus and Kai had met at the temple was flanked by several guards and Oswald whose expression made it clear he had been entranced by some magic. The priest managed the very beginnings of a speech mocking the party’s paltry efforts but didn’t get much further before weapons were unsheathed. Although the cultists were able to neutralize Kai for a time by banishing him to a demiplane, hindering the sheer damage output of the party for part of the fight, he was returned when the cultist who had cast the spell was killed and defeated the rest of the guards in a flurry of strikes. Tadhg approached Oswald, who attempted to ensnare them with the song of Yoor’Zogoth, but though they had been susceptible to it once they felt no sway from the music. They dispelled the enchantment he was under, restoring him to awareness. Once they established he hadn’t lost too much time – or at least that he knew the season – they sent him to join the children, as they had not yet exhausted the pathways beneath the town.

Nearby stood a ritual chamber of another sort; two candelabras stood on either side of a mat. Faustus lit the wicks magically and stepped on the mat, opening communication with Yoor’Zogoth. He allowed a question to be asked of him and eventually Faustus settled on the events at Lake Caiaphas that so worried the cult. The kraken intoned the answer: a colossus stirred in the waters of the lake, the magnum opus of Sathael’s plans. The warlock remarked that the kraken had been remarkably informative to the ones who had decimated his worshippers, prompting only the ominous response that Yoor’Zogoth had much more to gain from him than them. The kraken attempted to work some magic but was unable to do so, allowing Faustus to break the connection and continue on. Through a room with only a narrow strip of stone to serve as passage over the underground water source that had permeated so much of the headquarters with wetness, the party found the Baron’s office. A chest and a desk were the only fixtures of the room and while the desk held little of interest, Dell was able to pick the lock on the chest and retrieve some magic items from within.

Satisfied that they had explored every nook and cranny, the party begun to return to Tamaj, Victor, and the others so that they could get some much-needed sleep but they did not make it very far. As they walked through the room of water, tentacles rose from the depths and attacked the party. There was only one creature that their attacker could be and over the course of the battle several members of the party came face-to-face with Yoor’Zogoth himself. However, the kraken held up poorly under their attacks and fled relatively quickly from the combat, raising doubts in the four as to whether it was truly the kraken. The party arrived in the library to the sight of Tamaj entertaining and Oswald badgering Victor with his worst nautical puns. Together, the group emerged through the entrance in the temple to the quiet streets of Corome in the early hours past midnight. Despite the lateness of the hour, the party sought out Ancilla and reunited her with her children before getting some rest.

In the morning, they picked up the thread of conversation with Tamaj, who was happy to answer the party’s questions as thanks for rescuing him from the clutches of the kraken. First, he explained how he had come to Corome. When Leilani had been placed in her imprisonment, he had left his lair to fly to Fenlaur in the hopes of aiding in reviving her. Once it became clear that there was nothing he could do, he returned only to find that his lair had been overtaken by malevolent forces. As a mighty dragon, he was more than capable of driving them out but these usurpers had a hostage in the form of Tamaj’s egg. He had little choice but to seek help in Corome, where he fell prey to the machinations of the cult. He knew little of Sathael’s disappearance or what she had done after approaching him with questions on the nature of the long lives of dragons, but he was able to shed light on her formative years. He hadn’t known her at the time, but Kiara Prondaelan had told him that in those days Sathael had been a normal child, sentimental enough to keep her book of childhood nursery rhymes and anything but the cold and distant figure she had grown up to be.

Once they had learned all the dragon could tell, the party was keen on enlisting assistance from Tamaj and Victor in mounting an assault on Yoor’Zogoth. Victor told them that he had quite enough of krakens and would be heading to Wendalin in the east in the hopes of finding a repository equal to the one he had hoped to find in his infiltration of the cult. Tamaj was hesitant to risk his life when his child was imperiled. After some discussion, the party agreed to assist Tamaj and teleported themselves to Tamaj’s lair. They appeared at the mouth of a cave overlooking the ocean surrounding the island of Elihyel, greeted by the lashing of the waves against the cliffs and a voice that issued from the cave. It demanded that the adventurers come no further, lest they trespass upon the tomb of the ancients and suffer the consequences. Undaunted by the warning, Tadhg stepped forward beyond the entrance of the cavern and though a black wind picked up at their approach, the voice spoke no more.

Next
[Session 22](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2022.md)