---
date: 2019-04-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 10

Just at the border of the woods surrounding Lunova Tower, Tadhg summoned Uriel, requesting his aid in laying siege to the tower. He agreed to assist them in exchange for a small payment and the strengthened party approached the doors of the tower. The scent of death drifted out forebodingly from behind the tower’s doors but no guardian barred their way. Tadhg knocked at the door, declaring that they were here to kill the tower’s occupant, before throwing open the doors and heading inside. Within, one of the first rooms the party explored was a study containing a variety of geographical and historical books on the province of Lunova, a report written by Nahlir assessing the party’s capabilities, and a closet filled with various cloaks. Down the hall, a library filled with a more extensive collection of texts was accented with a map of the region, marking out various tactical plans to breach the walls of the cities of Fenlaur and Olamist, circumventing their defenses.

Further down the winding hallway, the party emerged into a stable. Six pegasi and a single nightmare were kept there by the master of the tower. The steeds were agitated by the presence of the party, causing Tadhg to approach the animals with the intent of calming them. They were soon joined by Dell, armed with rations, and Uriel who spoke as a fellow being of the heavens. Faustus, by contrast, approached the nightmare. Recognizing his devilish connections, it was willing to shift its allegiances to the party. One of the pegasi freed by Tadhg was reluctant to leave their side. The party sent the two steeds outside to await their return. A back storage room contained several packages of horse feed and four undead stablehands. At the party’s approach, the stablehands rose to reanimation and attacked. Once they were obliterated by Tadhg’s holy power, ghouls emanated from their crumpled forms. The spectres were similarly slain, though the final ghoul teleported itself away before it could be dispatched.

No other paths presented themselves to the party aside from the tower’s main staircase. Opting to explore the tower’s depths before its heights, the group descended the steps. The pungent smell of death that permeated the tower intensified and the green mist of undeath curled up around their ankles as they walked through the hall, toward the source of a gentle lullaby. Kai kicked down the door they found at the end of the passage to reveal rows upon rows of zombies. Rather than rush to attack the intruders, only two of the creatures were roused from their musically-induced incapacitation by the party’s presence. The rest of the undead were alerted, however, by a fireball erupting in their midst, provoking a massive surge of undead might. The horde of zombies came close to overwhelming the party through sheer numbers, sparking a war of attrition that diminished the party’s resources to the point that they elected to leave the remaining undead that had been censured by Tadhg’s divine power in their helpless state and return to the temple to recuperate.

They fled the tower on horseback, arriving at the temple within an hour. Over the course of their rest, Dell examined the music box he had retrieved to determine the mechanism under which it operated, determining that the music was laced with a sleep spell. Once they’d restored some of their strength, they returned to the edge of the forest to perform another summoning. From Avernus, Faustus called forth a white abishai to replace Uriel’s position in their group, as he had been defeated by the zombies beneath the tower. Returning to the scene of battle, the party picked off the rest of the zombies. During the fight, the sound of rumbling, like the pangs of hunger, echoed from beneath the adventurers’ feet. Though off-putting, the party made to discover the source of the noise. At the end of the zombie room, a locked door and an unlocked door stood. Heading through the path of least resistance, the party spied a chest guarded by a demon that devours souls. Still suffering the exhaustion caused by their fight against the zombies, the party chose to explore the area behind the locked door.

On the final floor of the tower, the mist climbed to fill the air and the party entered into a room with three switches labelled *Feed*, *Drain*, and *Additive*. Further exploration led to a room where the centrepiece of the space was a pedestal holding an empty book. Faustus was able to identify the book as enchanted to conceal the words written in it, only revealing them when a password was spoken. Dell took the opportunity afforded by the short break to craft a fan to clear the air, which he gave to Tadhg. The adjoining room was a monstrous sight; four large hearts were connected to a mass of flesh and puss by long arterial vessels, supplying it with resources unknown. The mass, which introduced itself as Targa Zul, spoke to the party telepathically, asking if they were friends of the master of the tower. When they replied in the negative, it went on to ask if they had come to pledge their selves to its service. It became clear to the four that they were entering dangerous waters and so they begun to flee. Tadhg agilely escaped the room and flipped the switch to drain the room, unwittingly setting off an alarm system and causing a poisonous gas to leech into the room. Fortunately, they had the fan in their possession and did not succumb to its effects. The activation of the alarm system caused a wall to appear in the previously empty corridor, separating Faustus from the rest of the party as they were preparing to utilize the spell Tadhg had laid down in case of emergency to escape the tower. However, it did not prove as a barrier for long, as Tadhg teleported around it to reunite the party and return them to safety.

The temple itself was only hours from crumbling, forcing the party to make camp for the night unprotected. Indeed, this weakness was taken advantage of the moment the temple disappeared around the four, as the image of an elven woman appeared. She assured the party that she was not there to fight them and made it clear that she was the “angel” who had visited Tadhg in dreams. She remarked upon the party’s reluctance to leave the island, prompting them to inform her of Yoor’Zogoth’s threat. She offered them safe passage off the island if they left her to her schemes but the party were disinclined to take her at her word. The conversation broke down into hostilities after a time, ending when she promised to eradicate the problem the party posed when they next met.

The night passed uneasily, with the eyes of the undead on the group but no danger befalling them. In the morning, Staufen requested a trip to hell to bring a spell gem to the citadel of Mephistar, which Faustus obliged before the party set off to the tower once more. Just outside the tower, Tadhg beseeched the Dadga to destroy the tower and, despite its magnitude, the god answered their prayers. Meteoric fury rained down on Lunova Tower, causing significant damage to the structure. With this new edge on their renewed assault, the party headed up to the second level without delay. There, they found two glabrezu who obfuscated themselves with magical darkness and confusion but eventually were defeated when Kai disturbed the fragile structural integrity of the tower in a bid to fight through the darkness, causing a boulder to crush the two demons beneath its weight.

Next
[Session 11](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2011.md)