---
date: 2019-11-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 27

The fearsome Lord of Undeath made his debut on the battlefield with aplomb, calling down a torrent of darkness to engulf Kai, negating the necrotic resistance that Dell had imbued into his armour. With that done, he begun to wear down at Kai’s defenses, inflicting serious injuries on the fighter in just one series of attacks. Tadhg, realizing the dire nature of this situation, used the most powerful healing spell in their arsenal to restore the party and their adjutants to their full strength. Even so, the demon lord posed a deadly challenge that the party knew they would need to overcome before he could retaliate against them with such force again. The assembled force threw all they had against Orcus, managing in the end to slay the proxy, causing it to crumble away into nothingness.

The party picked off the final zombies on the field before regrouping to discuss their next move. Orcus was not, of course, truly defeated but none of the party’s magical means of travel were available to them, as their resources had been expended on the battle with the colossus, requiring them to return to Vilyre to recover for the night. The fall of the colossus precipitated the return of the evacuees from the town, who were still slowly trickling in by the time the group passed through the gates in the evening. Tadhg made a stop at the jeweler’s shop on their way to their accommodations for the night, buying all the diamonds in stock and arranging the delivery of additional diamonds as soon as the jeweler was able to acquire them.

In the morning, the party teleported back to the capital of Elihyel to determine Mardella’s progress on waking Leilani. As they materialized in the castle, it was evident that the mood had lightened in their absence, suggesting Mardella’s success. Indeed, Leilani herself came to greet the party not long after their arrival. She was still recovering from her months of imprisonment but she thanked the four for their many deeds in service of Elihyel, including this most recent destruction of Sathael’s greatest weapon. In their honour, she intended to host a celebration at the castle and invited each of the party to invite any guest they saw fit to accompany them.

Tadhg immediately contacted Oswald, exuberantly telling him that there would be a party the following evening. Oswald matched their enthusiasm, saying that he would be happy to attend. Likewise, Dell quickly settled on inviting Norona, as it would make the delivery of the lich-slaying bullets easier were they able to make the exchange in person. Kai was undecided on his guest, as all those he counted as friends on the island were already in attendance. Tadhg suggested that he invite Leo, as they were sure Oswald and Leo would either hit it off immediately or start a lifelong rivalry of epic proportions. In the absence of any other choices, Kai agreed, and Leo summarily invited Victor along as well. And, naturally, Faustus had already left for the Nine Hells to invite Mephistopheles to attend mere moments after the party had been announced.

With an entire day to prepare, the party went to purchase appropriate attire for the event. While they perused the shop’s many offerings, Oswald stepped out of a dressing room, garbed in a gaudy combination of blue and yellow. How he arrived so quickly is anyone’s guess. Once the party was suitably dressed, they awaited the hour of the party.

It seemed as if everyone they had met over the course of their time in Elihyel had been invited to the event. Valeria arrived with Jacob in tow, Lord R and his court were in attendance, Tamaj had flown from Argalin to visit his dear friend, but rather than getting the opportunity to speak with any of these guests, the party was immediately intercepted by Willy. The fraudster claimed that he was a friend of the royal family and launched into a sales pitch for potions of dubious quality. The party endured his spiel for a time before calling over the guards to remove him from the premises.

At this point Tadhg, who had been searching for the presence of any magical beings in attendance, noticed a mouse that was clearly a celestial incognito. Once captured, the party determined that the mouse was Ursava, the deva they had rescued from Wendalin Tower. Although the party was initially concerned that his presence would spell trouble for them, he assured the group that he was simply attending to partake in the celebrations, along with his fellow devas. A slightly awkward discussion about Ravam followed, but it was quickly superseded by Oswald loudly announcing that he had joined an adventuring party, namely Leo and Victor’s strange alliance. As their party was one short of the traditional number, Dell immediately attempted to convince both Brin and Crampernap to join unsuccessfully.

In the meantime, Kai approached Leilani, who was enmeshed in political discussions with her family. Nonetheless, she spared some time to answer his questions about Glavaluna, explaining its abilities to an eager Kai. He also took the opportunity to check-in with Tamaj, learning that his child Hearth had been doing well since his rescue. Likewise, Faustus extended a formal invitation for Valeria to visit the library of Cania so that they might mutually consult the full set of the Tomes of History. Norona also consulted with Dell on the future prospects of their shared enterprise, telling him that it was all proceeding smoothly.

A surprise appearance by Gravid led to an impromptu band formation of the skeleton, Oswald, Tamaj, and Karaviel. The impending chaos of the rest of the party begun here, as the disruption of the party gave Lord R occasion to speak with Tadhg. His not-so-subtle insults prompted Kai to unceremoniously suplex the old elf, causing quite the scene (though most attendees did approve of Lord R being knocked down a few pegs). A certain Harold Alluva received much the same treatment from Tadhg upon his continuation of his attempts to sue for the emotional damages of his brother’s death in Elinsholm before being disintegrated by Faustus for his trouble.

In an attempt to restore some normalcy to the party, and in response to his indications earlier, the devas asked Dell to dance, prompting several other guests to join in. On the sidelines of the dancefloor, Leilani took notice of Brin, who had been shadowing Faustus all night. His introduction to her unsettled Leilani’s good mood, reminding her of her sister. She attempted to learn how her sister had been, but Brin was loath to discuss the lich at all, much less with someone so convinced that Sathael could be redeemed. Both of the two left the party shortly after, unable to enjoy the party with the spectre of Sathael hanging over them.

After Leilani’s departure, the party steadily wound down until only the party remained. They briefly discussed whether or not it was time to confront Sathael directly, as well as the likely ramifications of their inevitable clash with Leilani once they had killed Sathael. As if to mirror their thoughts, Sathael visited all four of the adventurers in their dreams that night, making it clear that they were moving ever closer to direct conflict.

She claimed that they were mere pests to her and that the destruction of the colossus was merely the loss of one of many schemes, but it was clear from the fact that she came to assert this to the party at all that she had been backed into a corner. Keen to make use of the upper hand they had gained, the party used what Tadhg knew from scrying on Sathael to attempt to teleport to her lair, but their lack of complete information on its location led to a mishap – landing the party in the town of Rentatay.

Next
[Session 28](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2028.md)