---
date: 2019-05-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 15

In the morning, Faustus received a sending from Mardella. She believed that she had found a solution to Queen Leilani’s magically induced sleep and requested the party’s assistance in locating what she needed. Alongside her message, an air elemental bearing a small chest containing a scroll and a rat. The rat was an awakened creature and introduced himself as Bart. Mardella told him that the item she needed to undo the curse (which may or may not exist) was the Ring of Okallo. Its location was lost to even the oldest surviving legends but she believed information about its location might be found in Peregrine Mill. He provided a short description of the ring before he directed Faustus’ attention to the scroll, which contained a courier to send him back to Fenlaur. Since the party had no further questions, he was sent on his way.

The party closed the distance between their campsite and the tower, approaching the stairs that led down to the first door. Inscribed on the door was a symbol that didn’t appear to be in any language, prompting Tadhg to cast detect magic on it. They detected an aura of abjuration magic, leading the party to surmize that it was the result of the spell Symbol. After both Dell and Tadhg attempted to dispel the symbol without success, Dell shrunk the door, inadvertently activating the symbol. Tadhg took the full brunt of its effects, causing them to become subject to a short insanity. Inside, laughter echoed, leading the rest of the party to head inside, despite seeing nothing within. Kai swung blindly with his sword, making impact with a creature. Once it was slain, Dell cast a spell to circumvent the invisibility of any remaining creatures, revealing two barlguras. While Kai and Faustus battled the barlguras, Dell focused on corralling Tadhg as they moved about erratically. When the barlguras were dealt with, Kai chased Tadhg around for the remainder of the insanity.

To the west, a room similar to Nahlir’s war room in Lunova Tower detailed the strategic significance Velkas had assigned to each of the settlements in the province. The only other room on the main floor was a meditation chamber which contained writings written by Velkas analyzing the progression of the infection’s spread across Elihyel, along with a few poems that spoke of four friends poised to take on the world before everything fell apart.

On the second floor, the party walked in on five Prondaelan zealots, breaking for lunch. Rather than spring to their feet to attack, the zealots asked if they could finish eating before attempting to tear the party to pieces, which the party obliged. During the ensuing ten minutes, the party picked up on the zealots’ gossip, learning about past and prior assignments they had been given. Once all present were prepared, the fight began. Safe in the knowledge that they could be raised from the grave, the barbarians fought to their last breaths.

Beyond the room where the barbarians were resting was an odd room filled with notes on the process to summon celestials and a statue of Ravam’s humanoid form. One of the doors in this room led to a northern hallway, attached to locked door. Behind this door, which Dell picked the lock on, were two Captains and a winged zombie that party had not yet encountered and dubbed Gargoyles. Due to their small number, they posed no real threat to the party, though their presence made it clear that, like Lunova Tower, a small force of undead was likely kept here. Following the same hallway as it curved to the south led to a room containing a single Fishbowl holding a bell. The four were able to dispatch the zombie before it could ring the bell, allowing Dell to collect it for later examination.

Only the tower’s lower levels remained unexplored. The sickly green mist that had characterized Lunova Tower’s basement floors seeped up toward the adventurers as they descended below. The gentle melody of a music box could be heard behind the door and, as before, a group of docile zombies lay beyond. Now fully aware of the music box’s function, the party prepared to take the zombies out in one fell swoop. But, as they levied their full firepower against the horde, the illusion vanished, making way for the appearance of a glowing door. A balor stepped out, gloating that the party were predictable to a fault before attacking. Knowing that they were in no shape for a fight, the party fled. Outside the tower, Tadhg leveled the tower with an earthquake and created another temple to allow the party to idle away the remainder of the day. During this time, Dell determined that the bell was able to summon a celestial and went outside the boundaries of the temple to utilize it. An eagle appeared in response to the summons, acting as a proxy for the celestial in question. Dell requested the celestial’s aid in combating the balor, which the eagle seemed amenable to. It took the bell in its talons and went to perch on the roof for the night.

As had become typical for their evenings, it passed uneventfully. In the morning, as the group stood outside Argalin Tower, a resounding thunderclap heralded the arrival of Ravam. He was more than willing to smite a fiend, accompanying the party to the room where the balor had appeared via an opening to the floors below created by Tadhg. The balor was in the process of scrawling out a teleportation circle to a specific location in the Abyss when it was interrupted by the group’s appearance. It summoned a marilith as backup, but it was no match for Ravam’s zeal. Despite his aid in this aspect of the battle, he was equally detrimental, as he intended to fulfil his promise to kill Faustus at the same time. As the battle neared its end, Faustus cast planeshift to abscond to Cania, escaping Ravam’s wrath. After a stern talking to from Tadhg, Ravam left the remaining three members of the party to their exploration of the tower.

Next
[Session 16](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2016.md)