---
date: 2020-01-28
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 35

Once the party reached the ground, they regained the upper hand against the dragon, being no longer confined to Raikaze’s back in terms of manoeuvering. Although their opponent was a fearsome dragon animated by the dark power of a demon prince, it proved no match for the party’s immense power and was slain before the dragon to do its worst. As they had already landed and it had been nearly a day since they had last slept, the party took to opportunity to rest for the “night”.

With Everlost just visible on the horizon, the party begun the final leg of their journey. Much of Thanatos had been utterly barren during their travels but as they approached the looming fortress of Everlost, more and more undead could be seen below, wandering aimlessly across Oblivion’s End. Raikaze dropped the five off near the entrance to the castle – a grotesque structure wrought of gleaming bone – and bid them luck in restoring Sathael to normal.

On the castle’s battlements, a compliment of archers stood vigilant, backing up the barlguras and goristro who had been set to guard the walls against intrusion. Over the course of the party’s approach to the gates, they were able to eliminate both the goristro and the majority of the visible barlguras with long-range weaponry and magic, leaving only the archers to contend with. The high walls of the castle posed an obstacle to members of the party without easy access to flight, but Tadhg’s innate prowess at climbing and a quick spell on Brin allowed them both to make it over the forty-foot walls and into the fray.

As they made their way through the ranks of the archers, more barlguras, concealed until then by invisibility, made their presence known. However, Tadhg (as a giant crab) and Kai were able to deal with most of the demons while the rest of the party took out the undead archers one by one. Soon enough, the last of the castle’s outer defenses crumbled, leaving the party victorious. Foregoing the possibility of using the captured walls as a place to potentially recover from the battle, as it was likely Orcus would simply summon more forces to replace those that the party had fought if given the opportunity.

The party passed through the gates of the castle, its architecture morphing from the carved bone of the exterior to an interior fashioned from muscle. Their hushed voices echoed off the walls of the massive space, which were covered in signs that promised to lead them to “the master of the castle and all his treasures”. Wary of these false promises, the party searched for an alternate route, eventually finding a concealed door that Dell was able to see with his truesight.

Darkness permeated the passageway, letting up only when they reached a set of three branching hallways. Opting to follow the path that headed deeper into the bowels of the castle, the party eventually found themselves at a single door. Writing nearby claimed that a great treasure was held within but passing through the door returned them to the point where they had initially been presented with a fork in the way to proceed. This time, the party took the path that led to the upper levels, reaching an eerie room occupied only by a filthy pile of rags. This alone would be a strange sight but the bundle was slowly pulsing at an irregular pace like an active by slowly dying organ.

Dell, not willing to take chances, fired at the pile, causing it to sprout four legs and attack. Once it had been killed, its blood sizzling where it pooled on the cobblestone, the party continued along the left path, reaching a set of three doors. Each was inlaid with a different metal: gold, silver, and lead. Not trusting the lustre of the gold door, the party opened the silver door and entered into a grand library. A cursory look at its shelves revealed books detailing Orcus’ many accomplishments, from his rise to power to his creation of the dracolich. Curiously, the library also contained a biography of a gnomish necromancer, the significance of which the party could not make heads nor tails of.

Taking the right path at the next set of branching hallways, the party found themselves at a portrait of a pit fiend in chains. Despite seeming at first to be a simple painting, the pit fiend spoke at their approach, asking for their assistance. In light of the attempts at deception that had encountered elsewhere in the castle, the party put little stock in this, but told the painting they would free them nonetheless if they had the opportunity.

With no further way forward, the party retraced their steps for a time, taking the left path at the previous branch. The winding path deposited them at the foot of an ornate set of double doors that suggested they may have found the place they were looking for at last. Within, a grand hall led up to the foot of a throne. Much like the castle itself, it was wrought from the bones of the dead, and on it sat the Lord of Undeath himself, clearly awaiting their arrival. From his vantage on the throne, he addressed the party via telepathy in a plurality of voices, telling them that though they may have thwarted his plans on the Material Plane, they stood now in his domain and would die there.

Using the power of the Wand of Orcus, he called forth four liches to his side, making it clear that he intended to make good on his threat. Against Sathael, the party had nearly been defeated and now they stood against not only three more liches than they had during that climactic encounter, but the demon prince Orcus. Even against such overwhelming odds, the party would not falter. They engaged the liches first, managing to break through their magical defenses with unrelenting force, managing to turn two of the liches to dust. At this, Orcus deigned to rise from his throne, approaching Brin first. He spoke to the death knight with authority, commanding him to remember who he truly served. Without even the ability to resist, Brin fell under Orcus’ control, turning against the party.

Knowing that Tadhg was their linchpin, Brin attacked, bringing them nearly to unconsciousness with two strikes of his longsword. Seizing the moment of opportunity this presented, one of the remaining liches spoke a single word of power, killing Tadhg outright. Although Orcus was occupied by Kai, who had managed to cut through his protective magic to land a number of decisive hits, the party had seen firsthand his ability to reanimate the dead at a scale unlike any a mortal spellcaster could dream of. They knew that they had only seconds to revive Tadhg before they were in danger of being transformed into an undead thrall of the demon prince, a state that would prevent their revival from all but the most powerful healing magic, which only Tadhg themself had mastered…

Next
[Session 36](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2036.md)