---
date: 2019-03-20
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 9

The evening after their encounter with Leo and co. Tadhg laid out their divination spread to contact the Dadga. They asked about Sela, learning that she was not who she claimed to be and that she had ill-intentions toward Tadhg. They were also told that the nature of Ravam’s intentions toward their friends were unclear. Faustus took the opportunity to test the efficacy his ability to transport creatures through the lower planes as a mail delivery service. With their business concluded, the four went to sleep. Sela visited Tadhg in their dreams - or attempted to, with the insights the Dagda had given them in mind, Tadhg did not allow her to contact them. Instead, their dreams faded into a prophetic vision of a tower. Within a woman resembling Sela sat, facing away from them, removing a mask.

In the morning, the party embarked on their third day of travel. The road they were following to Vont’Al begun to slope down through the hills, a late afternoon fog rolling in from the foothills. Wind whistled around the party, bearing the words of Nahlir. Although he underestimated the party during their last encounter, he would not repeat that mistake. Emerging from the fog, he came with two new additions to his entourage - a deva and zombies shrouded with globes of smog called Fishbowls. In attacking the party, the deva revealed telepathically that he was being forced to fight against his will. The Fishbowls were capable of limited speech and spellcasting, making this rematch with Nahlir a formidable one despite the death knight bringing fewer reinforcements. However, with Norona running counterspells against Nahlir’s many spell scrolls, Kai fending off the deva and eventually knocking him unconscious, Tadhg’s healing and area-of-effect spells, the protection offered by Dell’s turret, and Nahlir being hurled through hell by Faustus, the party was able to prevail through a hard-fought battle. As Nahlir was shattered, a sigh of relief left his lips, and picking off the remnants of his undead forces posed no further issue.

No longer under attack, the party turned to the matter of the deva. Held both through enchantment and manacles, Tadhg administered a potion to revive the deva. His will was still not his own, making it apparent that Nahlir was not the one exerting that control. Dell begun to identify the nature of his enchantment but during the required minute, the deva broke free and the party was forced to rend him unconscious again. Not willing to take the risk again, Dell and Tadhg both blindly dispelled the magic, with Tadhg successfully lifting the spell. The deva introduced himself as Uriel and thanked them for freeing him from what he revealed to be a planar binding cast by a spellcaster of great power who resided in Lunova Tower to the north. The party informed him that the angel Ravam was looking for him. He gave them what information he could before departing but his absence from the heavens meant he wasn’t up-to-speed on current events.

Once they were alone again, Tadhg mentioned the tower they’d seen in their dream and suggested that the party head to the tower. They agreed and made camp for the night. Dell approached Norona and offered her a job opening a franchise of Timbers’ Machine Works while Kai challenged Tadhg to a sparring match in the morning, unearthing some residual grief over Thrax’s death. In the night, Tadhg rejected another attempt at conversation from Sela and she changed her targets to the rest of the party. On her visit to Faustus, he revealed Tadhg’s suspicions and Sela dropped her façade to reveal her true nature. She demanded the party cease their meddling, as outsiders were not accounted for in the parameters she had set up, and leave the island. The two traded barbed words and threats for a time until, when her offer was refused, she transformed into a monstrous form and robbed him of a restful sleep. When she visited Kai, he was unreceptive to her nice act, causing her to again unleash torment on his dreams. Dell, like Tadhg before him, ignored her arrival.

Several of the party’s members, including Norona, awoke worse for wear so the party took some extra time in the morning to recuperate. Valeria, having failed to scry on the party, contacted Faustus requesting to do so. Over the course of their conversation, he informed her of the goings-on and she offered to scry on their enemies on their behalf. An hour later, they set off, moving off the beaten path to reach the tower without returning to Olamist. A towering angel blocked their way not long into their journey, claiming that this area of the island was sacred to Voraan. Doubtful, Tadhg cast detect magic, revealing it to be an illusion, despite its denial of that fact as they walked right through it.

They also encountered a warforged with a frog on his head. The warforged said he had gotten lost on the way to the frog’s swamp and the party offered him directions, for which he thanked them. As afternoon approached evening, the party came across four bodies strewn among the bushes. When Tadhg and Faustus went to repose the corpses, they sprung to life and attacked the party. Although they were taken by surprise, the party dispatched the zombies just in time to set up the nightly temple. Dell offered to make rings of mind shielding for the remaining two party members without any protection from telepathic communication, though they wouldn’t be ready until after the upcoming rest.

Taking advantage of her final chance to invade their dreams, Sela visited each of the four but despite threats to their lives, their friends, and their families, the party did nothing but sass her. She declared that they would regret their flippant disregard for her power and vanished, though not before inflicting what damage she could on the group. With only a few hours separating the campsite and the tower, Tadhg cast a spell that would transport the party back to the temple if they were in danger before the four closed the distance and prepared to storm the tower.

Next
[Session 10](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2010.md)