---
date: 2019-03-06
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 7

Raloth met the party at the gates to the castle, asking if they required anything from him in order to perform the spell that would allow him to speak with his mother. Crampernap requested the components Leilani had outlined in her description of the ritual of dreamwalking that would appease Uvean in future intrusions into his realm. The materials were sent for and the proper rituals performed before the spell took hold, opening a channel into the realm of dreams for Raloth. The party now had a handful of hours to kill and so they headed out into the city of Fenlaur to take care of several errands - ranging from purchasing spells to picking up spare coin through the employment of their skills as a diviner. Recalling that Felicia and her crew were staying in the city, Tadhg took the chance to check in on Oswald. However, when they inquired after him to Felicia, she informed them that he had parted ways with them and set off on his own. Curious about where he intended to go, they sent him a sending asking how he was doing. He responded by telling them he was headed toward the town of Corome, to which Tadhg responded that they would come to visit him sometime. Continuing the thoughts of absent acquaintances, Crampernap sent a message to Valeria asking after her progress in her mysterious business on Elihyel. As always, she was evasive on the matter and assured him that all was well with her.

When the party returned to the palace, Raloth’s excitement had faded into a concern. He asked Crampernap if he was certain that the person he had contacted in dreams was his mother, telling the party that her recollection of the events leading up to the day she fell under the effects of her enchantment didn’t line up with what he had observed. The party did what they could to reassure him on the matter but they couldn’t help harbouring doubts of their own. Despite his misgivings, Raloth still drew some comfort from being able to speak to his mother and thanked the party for allowing the meeting to take place, inviting them to stay the night in the guest wing once again. As they told the prince regent of their future plans, he warned them to stay away from the northern tip of the island in their travels. Recent reports from the area indicated that draconic activity had been seen in the area and the descriptions provided by eyewitnesses matched the appearance of Vezira, the scourge of Elihyel that Queen Leilani had slain.

That night, Crampernap dreamt of the library at his university. As he was consulting the books, the ceiling was torn asunder and a being of wheels within wheels marked with eyes descended upon him. The ophanim spoke in a voice that shook the foundations of the building, accusing Crampernap of giving grave offence to its lord Uvean. It said that it should levy a harsher punishment against him for his actions but was content to let him off the hook with a warning. Crampernap immediately changed its mind by mouthing off, causing it to smite him, inflicting a bone-deep tiredness on him that prevented him from regaining any of his expended magical power.

Tadhg, too, was visited in dreams by an angel, though the experience was much less antagonistic. This angel gave her name as Sela and told Tadhg that she wanted to speak to them because she knew that they were a good and virtuous person and, since she was writing a tale of a saint, she was hoping to use them as a model. Completely taken off-guard, Tadhg did their best to answer the slightly threatening series of questions about their full names and who their loved ones were honestly but without providing details that could be used against them. The conversation had satisfied her for now, though she hoped to speak with Tadhg again in the future. In the morning, an exhausted Crampernap informed the party of what had transpired in his dream and that they would be unable to teleport back and thus were staying an extra day in Fenlaur. In order to avoid incurring the wrath of Uvean’s angels going forward, Tadhg and Faustus used the time to research dreamwalker etiquette, discovering that there seemed to be a disparity between the severity of Crampernap’s intrusion and the corresponding punishment from the Throne, though they couldn’t investigate the matter further before night fell.

As was becoming common, one of the party’s number was visited in their dreams. This evening, it was Faustus who was visited by the robed figure Tadhg had seen on the night of Thrax’s death, bearing the same command to leave this island. After breakfast, the party teleported back to Olamist - landing square in the centre of a crime scene. Two bodies lay in the street, both decapitated, with the area already cordoned off by a force of guards. After some investigation establishing that the heads were removed after the murders in order to prevent the victims from revealing the identity of their attacker from beyond the grave, Tadhg begun the process of casting the powerful resurrection magic needed to restore both their missing body parts and their souls. Out of courtesy for any civilians who might be passing, the process was performed inside a small tower summoned by Crampernap. This ended up drawing more trouble than it avoided, however, when Alucard took issue with its placement and demanded they dispel it. Now that they were unprotected, toward the end of the process a thief attempted to steal one of Tadhg’s pricey resurrection diamonds, though he was stopped by Kai. The woman, now returned to life, gave her name and, after being soothed by Tadhg, an account of what she could remember, which was simply a laugh ringing out in her final moments. Unable to cast the spell again until they had taken some time to rest and with inconclusive evidence, the party sought the hospitality of Lord R for the night. At dinner, Solafei praised the party’s initiative in investigating the vampire of Olamist, prompting visible concern from Atalanta and Valdimar.

Knowing that this would be the hour for the vampire to strike, the party slept lightly, a fact that was to their benefit when Tadhg was able to spot the mist seeping in under their door under cover of night. Rousing their companions, they led an attack on the vampiric mist, following it into Atalanta’s room and watching as it retreated inside. Within, there was no sign of their quarry, until Kai noticed an illusory book on her bookshelf and promptly smashed it, revealing a vent that led to unknown depths.

Crampernap took point on his broom, bringing Tadhg along as backup, and the two found that immediately beneath the drop lay a pit full of spikes, meaning that they would need to venture further into the vampire’s lair to find a safe place to bring the rest of the party. In the adjacent room, a sturdy floor presented the solution to that problem but a lamp casting a sickly green glow over those who entered presented another one. Its sinister magic sapped energy from both Tadhg and Crampernap but they were able to dispel its effects before any more serious effects could come to pass. Now that the room was safe, the four adventurers could proceed forward together, getting around locked doors with a combination of brute force (courtesy of Kai) and shrinking (courtesy of Crampernap). The next rooms they entered were filled with the grisly sight of the severed heads of Atalanta’s previous victims, a swarm of imps, a fireball, and numerous plates of food hanging from the ceiling, leading to a door that seemed to have been soundproofed by some means.

Doubling back, the party found an unsettling room covered in diagrams, notes, and red string describing the defenses of the town and speculating on the identity of the person responsible for unleashing the plague of undead upon the island. The centrepieces of this room were a throne inscribed with dedications to the god Voraan and a vellum painting of a green dragon displayed on the ceiling. To the northeast lay a pair of door, one emblazoned with an open eye and one with a closed eye. Selecting the open eye door allowed them party to pass unharmed into the room holding Atalanta’s coffin. Using a stake fashioned from a table leg, Kai slew her before she could reform, ending the threat she posed to Olamist and avenging Thrax’s death. As Faustus returned to the throne room to leaf through Atalanta’s notes, Tadhg went down the final unexplored path, finding themself face-to-face with the ghost of a stolid old man called Doro.

He mistakenly believed he was speaking to Atalanta and provided further indication that Atalanta truly had been concerned with Vezira’s re-emergence and with the undead threat. He also reiterated his request to be given a live zombie specimen for him to research before becoming suspicious of the fact that he was talking to three people when, usually, he only ever spoke to one. Crampernap fumbled the ensuing lie that Faustus was Atalanta and the rest of the party were assistants, prompting the ghost to unleash a powerful spell that killed Crampernap instantly and stunned Faustus. After reviving Crampernap and wisely retreating from the room, the party could only hope that he was tethered only to the single room, lest he give chase and finish what he had begun.

Next
[Session 08](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2008.md)