---
date: 2019-08-16
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 19

The many treasures of Vezira’s hoard lay free for the taking and the party was quick to identify any useful artefacts hidden within the mounds of gold. procuring several useful items over the course of their search. Curiously, a locket sealed with abjuration magic was found among the potions and weapons. Tadhg dispelled the lock, revealing its contents to be a portrait of two elven sisters - one with a very stiff bearing and one beaming happily. Though they were much older now, the party easily recognized the two as Leilani and Sathael. After assessing its possible use as a catalyst for scrying on Sathael, the party decided to hold on to it. Once they had collected everything of interest from Vezira’s lair, the four discussed their next move. Of their next destinations, Hook Port was the closest despite still being a week’s journey away. Although teleporting the entire distance was an option, there was little in the province of Shiyama to occupy their time, prompting the party to spend the rest of the day traveling to the western border with Argalin before setting up camp for the night.

As darkness fell, a whispering voice took root in Faustus’ mind. It questioned his intentions in seeing the events on Elihyel through to the end and offered its aid if their goals aligned. When he seemed receptive, it introduced itself as the Wand of Orcus. It claimed that it would provide its power with no strings attached. Knowing that its promises were false but hoping to prevent it from slipping off to a new master as it often did, he told the wand that he would need to consider its offer. The wand acquiesced but warned him not to take too long to make his decision.

When dawn broke, the party teleported to Hook Port. Due to a teleportation mishap, they arrived a little worse for wear, but ultimately intact. The port town boasted no true defenses to speak of and its remaining guards were visibly exhausted. Tadhg approached the nearest guard and enthusiastically offered their help with the ghost problem that they had been told about. The guard accepted gratefully and told the group all he knew; a contingent of ghosts had been marching up from the sea and through the town every night. This had not been truly a problem until the ghosts became violent.

Two days earlier, the ghosts attacked several families apparently without cause. Tadhg went to speak with one of the survivors, an elderly woman who they found sitting forlornly on the front steps of her home. Behind her were the clear signs of a break-in. She didn’t know much more about the ghosts than the guard but she recounted what she remembered of the attack. Her son had been killed by the spirits and she had buried what remained of his body in the town’s graveyard. As a powerful cleric, Tadhg possessed the abilities needed to restore him to life even with his body in such a state and told the woman they were happy to do so. She hesitated to agree immediately, since she had nowhere near enough money to afford such magic, but Tadhg insisted on doing it free-of-charge. She directed them to her son’s grave and gave her permission to exhume his body. While Dell begun the process of excavating the site, Tadhg headed off to track down the other family and gain their permission to restore their lost son to life as well.

With little else to do, Faustus and Kai made for the ocean’s edge to familiarize themselves with the future battleground. The small strip of beach was entirely barren - aside from a sandcastle complete with sand furniture. From the structure’s size and integrity, it had clearly been made both magically and recently. As they examined it, a crab got Kai’s attention and led him around the back of the sandcastle. It burrowed down in the sand to retrieve a pearl, which it gave to him. In exchange, Kai gave the crab the defunct Stone of Ill-Luck. It spoke in response to this gesture, though neither Kai nor Faustus knew the language. Figuring that they had not yet begun the ritual of resurrection, Kai returned to the graveyard to ask Tadhg to cast Tongues on him. Once the spell took hold, he returned to the crab and spoke with it properly. It mentioned that it was able to speak in the halfling language because the one who awakened it was a halfling. Going out on a limb, Faustus described the owner of pet shop in Fenlaur to Kai to relay to the crab and, sure enough, it had been her.

Back in the graveyard, the first of the ghosts’ victims returned to life. He thanked Tadhg and told them that the ghosts had yelled at him in Elvish before his death. The second had a very similar experience. It seemed there was little to do but await the ghosts’ appearance at nightfall. In the meantime, the party reconvened and Faustus broached the subject of the wand. The other three members of the party were hesitant to commit to the plan of attuning to it to force it to stay in their possession, as it was a demonic artifact of incredible malevolence. Eventually, they decided to table the matter for after the haunting was resolved.

With the arrival of the first stars came the trudging of the ghosts from the ocean. The military squad was led by a captain who insisted that their patrol through the town was instrumental to protecting it from the zombies. Despite their superior numbers, the ghosts proved no match for the four adventurers, who released them from their undeath, granting them freedom from the delusion that they were trapped in. Unable to travel to their next destination until the next day, the party opted to stay in Hook Port for the night. Several days had passed since Sathael’s death in Vezira’s forest, causing the party to wonder whether the lich had reformed yet. Faustus was unable to establish a connection with her spirit across the planes, cementing their suspicions. Using the locket, Tadhg attempted to scry on her, managing to do so. They were unable to see anything of her surroundings but did hear the whirring of some strange device and Sathael devising plans to deal with the threat posed by Kai. Before they could learn more, Sathael was alerted to the presence of the scrying sensor. She voiced her admiration of Tadhg’s skill in managing to spy on her in any capacity before dispelling the magic.

During the night, the wand’s whispers settled in Kai’s mind. It praised his potential as a warrior and urged him to wield it in pursuit of his own ends. Kai, in an effort to both placate the wand and alert the rest of the party, told it that it would need to find some way to appear to him discretely. While the wand arranged this, he alerted or woke his companions. Shortly after, a horse approached the temple, holding a mace among its saddlebags. Tadhg was not fooled by its pretensions at being a holy weapon, forcing it to drop the act. Having its attempts to goad the party into opposing each other to become its master exposed, it was only a matter of time before the wand would have to search elsewhere for a new master. Nonetheless, it attempted to convince Dell to listen to its overtures, which he summarily ignored. Dell and Tadhg were both unhappy with Faustus’ insistence that one of the party attune to it, making their distrust of it clear as they argued their case, again ending inconclusively with the wand put back into the bag of holding to allow them all to get some sleep before dealing with the wand.

The wand was nowhere to be found when they woke but fortunately the bag was not their only means of keeping a hold on it. Faustus was able to summon it back with the ritual he had placed on it when they’d first acquired it. From this incident, it had become clear that tying it down with attunement may be their only option, despite the risks. Faustus volunteered to do so, beginning the process once the other three had laid down bets on whether or not he would survive it. In the following hour, Tadhg communed with their god, asking if there was any way other than getting the gods to intervene to resurrect Astralla. They received a firm no and then two enigmatic answers regarding when the Dagda would intervene at Tadhg’s request. Faustus suggested they seek aid from another source and shifted the party to Cania to seek an audience with Mephistopheles. While he did so, Dell, Kai, and Tadhg enjoyed exploring the plane and purchasing souvenirs. The lord of Cania told his warlock that short of divine means, the party would need to wrest the soul of Astralla from Orcus’ palace in Thanatos - a task that was no mean feat.

Stymied for the time being, the party were forced to pursue other avenues. The spectre of Yor’Zogoth had loomed over the adventurers from their first days on Elihyel and the four had a much clearer path to eliminating that obstacle than many of the others in their path. Thus, they returned to the Material Plane before the gates of the city of Corome, preparing to shift the balance of power on the island once more.

Next
[Session 20](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2020.md)