---
date: 2019-01-30
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 4

The long anticipated day of arrival at Elihyel was marked by the unexpected sight of Jacob dressed in much finer clothes than the party had ever seen in him, He was joined on the deck of the Sugar Gold by Valeria in a new cloak of her own, who provided the party with the second half of their payment and spun the cover story that the party should provide if questioned about their presence on the island. They were to act as escort to Jacob-the-merchant as he conducted his business on the island. She guaranteed that they would be off the island in 3 months or less, unless she was dead in which case she would not be contacting them. With her promise made, she turned invisible and jumped off the side of the boat, leaving the crew of the Sugar Gold to negotiate their arrival in Shaw’s Port. Before they got within sight of the port, Quetzalcoatl too parted ways with the party, explaining that his people needed him before galloping out on across the ocean on his kelpie.

Now down two passengers, Felicia set out in a rowboat, accompanied by Jacob and the party to speak with the harbormaster about arrangements for the Sugar Gold to remain for the months of their stay on the island. They were met at the pier by two elves - one in full plate armour and the other in wizardly garb. The wizard introduced himself as Cregory Watchsmith and inquired with some surprise about the party’s intentions. Not only was this Elihyel’s off-season for trading, they had sent out missives to all the island’s major trade partners extending that closure indefinitely in response to the recent difficulties that had overcome the island. Christoph, the head of the regiment of guards who were stationed at the port to ensure the safety of the fisherfolk there, began an attempt to explain the exact nature of those difficulties, Faustus imparted the information he’d been given by his patron about the undead epidemic sweeping the island, much to the shock of those on both ends of the conversation.

Tadhg wasted no time in offering their services as a cleric in driving back the mounting tide of undead which the two were grateful for but hesitant to accept out of concern for their safety. Cregory gave his permission for the Sugar Gold to dock, though he would have to station guards nearby to prevent any desperate residents of Elihyel from attempting to leave the island by means of the ship. Although they had not been able to gather much in the way of solid evidence, the working theory was that the epidemic was not only virulent but contagious. They were soon interrupted by the very carriers of the plague, as the guards scrambled to attention from their rest to fight against some encroaching undead. Christoph suggested that the party should remain where they were while he and his men dealt with the creatures but the party had no intention of doing so.

Despite their extensive adventuring experience, none of the party were able to identify these creatures, leading to an unspoken agreement to nickname them for the purposes of differentiating in battle. The majority of the creatures were dispatched by the guards by the time the party reached the battlefield but they wouldn’t lack for opponents for long. Another wave of undead appeared, this time led by three creatures of a different type the party took to calling captains. In these closer quarters, the party was able to see the pale green light shining out from their pores, the sickly mist rising from their mouths, and the sludge leaking from the captains in particular. Unlike the first wave, these zombies absorbed a significant amount of damage, attempting to infect many of the guards, and succeeding in killing a few of them before they could be defeated.

Cregory, who had not joined the fighting, was shaken by what had happened but had his wits about him, insisting that those who had fallen against the zombies be destroyed before they could rise up again and join the ranks of the undead. However, Tadhg offered to preserve their bodies until they could be taken back to the capital for a proper burial. Talk of the capital turned to probing into the exact nature of what afflicted the island. Christoph told the party that the first zombies rose two months prior, shortly after Elihyel’s queen fell into a slumber no one could rouse her from. Her son, serving as prince-regent, has been doing all he can to keep the people from harm. Blanquet, recalling the contents of Tadhg’s dream, proposed that the woman they had seen might be the queen. Once they described her to Christoph, it became clear that the dream had indeed featured her. He felt that Tadhg should go to the prince and tell him of their vision and the party concluded that they might even be able to free the queen from her sleep. But, as the guards wouldn’t be able to escort them to the city until the fisherfolk had returned at the next dawn, the garrison and the party took the opportunity to recuperate from the battle.

Faustus and Tadhg, who they were already with the bodies to perform the ritual of gentle repose, took the opportunity to examine the bodies for signs of infection in hopes of understanding it better, finding that it acted quite quickly – they were only able to snag the final corpse from undeath at the last moment. They continued on to study the zombies, joined by Thrax, and noted that their characteristic glow and the mist emanating from them had dissipated. The sludge remained and the three figured that it carried some kind of unnatural curse that acted like a disease. Later that evening, Tadhg summoned a temple warded against undead as accommodations for everyone, excepting Crampernap who had already fabricated himself a hut that he was too proud to abandon. None of the group’s rests were disturbed but the presence of the creatures was clearly marked by the trails of sludge outside the doors to the hut and the temple.

Once the fisherfolk had come ashore, the garrison set out for Fenlaur with the party. It took two days of travel, one of which was punctuated by an encounter with a band of undead that included a new type of zombies with gaping maws that sang a strange melody before dying that the party called portals. The following day, they arrived in Fenlaur. The walled capital of Elihyel had been constructed next to a lake which ran through the city as a river. Outside the walls, the party’s obvious status as outsiders drew the curious attention of most residents as they passed by, but one woman caught the party’s attention. She insisted that the people of Elihyel had brought down this apocalypse on themselves with their multitude of sins against the gods, particularly Uvean, the god of sleep and death who was denying the people their final rest. As they drew closer to the inner wall surrounding the castle, the party noticed another convoy arriving ahead of them who appeared to be two nobles and their entourage bearing news to the prince. Christoph explained the purpose of the party’s visit to the guard, earning them entry soon after.

The prince, Raloth Prondaelan, greeted the two new arrivals together, questioning the party first since their presence was unexpected. Tadhg explained what they had to Christoph to the prince, who was willing to allow them to examine his mother, having tried everything he could think of so far with no success. One of the noble envoys, a man named Alucard, expressed his impatience at being ignored for a group of outsiders, though his companion Solafei did what she could to mitigate his behaviour and was more welcoming of the party. The guests as a whole were brought to the queen’s chambers, separating again only when Alucard and Raloth headed off to speak privately nearby. Crampernap and Tadhg cast all manner of rituals to divine the source of the queen’s sleep, eventually identifying the spell imprisonment as the cause. Both attempted to dispel it with no apparent success.

In the meantime, Faustus slipped out of the room to eavesdrop on the prince’s conversation, gathering several interesting pieces of information about the political situation of the kingdom. Alucard’s Lord R had sent him with a request for Ramael’s regiment to secure the north tower and a proposal to mount an assault against the Araluen Hills, the suspected source of the outbreak. Raloth, however, refused to sent his troops out on what may be a wild goose chase and leave the city vulnerable to attack. He also raised the issue of security in Lord R’s court, which Alucard assured him had been seen to in the form of all members submitting to a sunlight test in hopes of stomping out the rumours of a shadow monarch among them that had been spreading of late. Raloth relented and Faustus managed to return to the queen’s chambers just as the two finished their conversation to avoid being caught. In a last-ditch effort to find out the specifics of the queen’s condition, Tadhg attempted to contact them with the sending spell with no response. Still, the prince thanked them for their efforts and offered the party rooms at the palace for the night if they were so inclined after they took care of their business in the city.

Next
[Session 05](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2005.md)