---
date: 2018-12-26
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 1

Fair skies over Elinsholm heralded the arrival of our five adventurers in the port town, responding the summons in the form of a letter from the wizard Valeria. The five briefly introduced themselves to each other before approaching the docks, where Valeria awaited them with her associate, Jacob. She greeted them warmly and explained the exact terms of her proposed arrangement with the group - a two month trip by sea to the island of Elihyel and a three month stay on the island itself while she concluded her mysterious business there, with half of the payment to be given prior to the voyage and half upon its completion. Tadhg, who lived on a ship for most of their life, expressed their surprise, knowing that the island of Elihyel was closed to shipping at this time of year, but Valeria assured them that though she knew, her business could not wait. The party agreed and received their payments, taking it with them to the nearby shops to purchase last-minute supplies for the journey ahead.

Partway through their shopping, an elderly elven man who introduced himself pompously as Mordegard Alluva accompanied by two companions bristled toward them, accusing them of guilt by association with a thief who he had presumably chased to Elinsholm. The party, confused, tried to speak to him on the matter, but he cast a banishing spell on Thrax, making it clear he had no intention to be talked down. A battle ensued, resulting in the nearby general store catching alight as collateral damage of the fire magic being thrown around and Crampernap’s homunculus, Amicus, being destroyed. Despite the casualties, the party emerged victorious over the archmage and Crampernap captured his soul. With the interruption dealt with, Valeria took the party to the Sugar Gold, the vessel on which they would be sailing.

Its captain, Felicia Blackhook, met them on the docks with her first mate, Zoe. After confirming with Valeria that all those who would be sailing were present, they all boarded the ship. The first order of business was a tour of the ship, including the choosing of sleeping arrangements for the party among the three available rooms - breaking down into Tadhg and Thrax, Crampernap and Faustus, and Quetzalcoatl with a room to himself.

Now with an abundance of time to get to know each other, the party begun to get acquainted. Tadhg used their tarot and divination magic to give basic three-card spread readings to each of the other four party members and Thrax demonstrated his skill with augury by predicting a good result for the party’s impending snack time. With this omen, the two ran off to raid the ship’s stores, pulling along Quetzalcoatl with them. Faustus took the opportunity to begin casting a ritual for water breathing that would ensure anyone who fell overboard wouldn’t simply drown and Crampernap interrogated Mordegard’s soul. He learned that the items he had been after had been stolen from his demiplane before absorbing what remained of his soul.

In the morning, Felicia called the crew to order and reiterated the planned path for their voyage, mentioning that if need be they could stop at a waypoint for repairs or supplies which would add a few days to their journey but was unlikely to be necessary, considering that Zoe was a cleric. She also told the party of the ship’s offensive capabilities, though the Sugar Gold was not made for battle. The party was welcomed to spend their time as they’d like, including gambling, training, or assisting with running the ship. Tadhg decided to take the opportunity to become more proficient in acrobatics with Felicia as their tutor, Thrax and Faustus struck a deal to teach each other their native languages, and Cramplenap eschewed company to instead focus on crafting his dolls.

For nine days, the ship continued unimpeded, until another ship flying piratical colours crested the horizon. Through his spyglass, Crampernap determined that the crew consisted mostly of orcs and a pair of trolls. As it approached, the party and the crew talked strategy, deciding that Tadhg could speak to them in orcish to see if there might be a non-violent resolution to be reached. The captain, Gorkon, agreed to speak with them but the proceeding negotiations did not go very well, as she stated they were trespassing in her patron’s waters and would be subject to an exorbitant fine. When it became clear Felicia had no intent to pay up, Gorkon attacked, causing hostilities to erupt on both sides. Valeria, Jacob, and Felicia headed below deck over the course of the battle as the numbers on the hostile ship thinned and the ship itself was set ablaze. In short order, the party killed the pirates and the remaining crew fled as soon as they’d put out enough of their ship to be fit to sail.

Crampernap, who had again captured the soul of their enemies’ leader, spoke to Gorkon and asked about the locations of any hidden treasures, which lay on her ship, and the identity of her patron. The name she gave was Yoor’Zogoth, which Quetzalcoatl and Faustus concluded likely belonged to a kraken. Before fading away entirely, Crampernap was able to extract the information that others had been chosen by the kraken but that none were fellow captains. Pondering this new potential threat, the Sugar Gold continued on its way, with the majority of their seafaring journey still ahead.

Next
[Session 02](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2002.md)