---
date: 2019-09-24
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 24

Beyond the lair of the sibriex, the party discovered a grotesque laboratory. Disembodied limbs were strewn about, accompanied by notes and diagrams that portended the nature of the colossus that slumbered beneath Lake Caiaphas. As they were still in enemy territory, they had little opportunity to reflect on the matter, however, and they decided to return to the staircase guarded by the snakes. Although they had been outsmarted before, the snakes had one final trick up their sleeves. On approaching the staircase, it was revealed to be an illusion that had lured them into the trap of a slowly shrinking room. Fortunately, they were able to escape and reach the true staircase without any casualties.

The upper floor held Brin’s study, littered with detailed reports of the behaviour of the undead, meticulous battle plans, and several poems written in a different hand. Adorning the walls were many paintings depicting the three paladins and one, though singed, was of Sathael. Nearby, a strange room filled with invisible quasits gave the adventurers pause. A nightmare led them through safely before vanishing, leaving the party to only speculate at what dangers they had avoided.

In keeping with what they had seen on the entrance level, the party found two giant snakes and a Marilith barring their ascent. The creatures could not hold them off for long, even with the appearance of a second fiend partway through the battle. One final obstacle stood before the four in the form of an unassuming room furnished with only a piano. Across from the door they had entered through was its twin, warded with glowing symbols. No sheet music had been set at the piano but writing in Abyssal indicated the lyrics of a song. Tadhg was able to muddle through the bars on the unfamiliar instrument, allowing the party access to the roof of the tower.

The wind lashed and swirled, almost masking the argument that had been sputtering out as the party arrived. Brin, astride his dragon and surrounded by undead and the captive deva, was speaking with Selena, who wheeled to face the intruders and demanded that Brin destroy them. Although he had more than enough reasons to obey her, the death knight hesitated to act. Selena had no such compunctions. The fight begun in earnest, yet Brin remained reluctant to attack the party, insisting that he felt that it wouldn’t be right to do so. Once Selena – or rather her simulacrum – had been melted courtesy of the flames of the Nine Hells and Ursava’s chains had been dispelled, the party took a diplomatic approach toward the last of the death knights. He managed to explain that unlike his fellow knights he had been able to defy Sathael’s control before one final threat made itself known. A goristro demon became visible as Lyco attacked it, renewing the combat. The demon managed to knock Faustus over the edge of the tower, forcing Ursava to abandon his attempts to fend off the zombies while the party took down to fiend to rescue him.

Dell struck the final blow against the creature, returning it to the depths of the Abyss. A tentative truce was struck with Brin and nigh immediately discarded when Ursava returned. The deva, having been imprisoned by Brin for months, was not in a forgiving mindset. Even with the party’s attempts to defuse the situation, Ursava was no match for Brin. In a last-ditch attempt to turn the tide, he called for Ravam’s assistance. The solar appeared in a blaze of light and fixed his many eyes not only on Brin, but on Faustus. It was all too late that Ursava realized what he had done. With all his righteous fury and zeal, he finally succeeded in his retribution against the warlock for his blasphemy. Faustus’ death left the Wand of Orcus unmoored from the bonds of attunement but before it could return to the hand of its master, Ravam took possession of the wand. Intent on eradicating it once and for all, the solar sped away from Wendalin Tower with the speed of a comet, leaving the party to revise their plans. Resurrecting Faustus was a simple matter and neither Brin nor Ursava were inclined to fight any longer, but the loss of the Wand of Orcus was not so easily contended with.

For all his faults, the party concluded that Ravam likely did intend to destroy the wand. Nonetheless, they were certain that it would make its way to Thanatos before he could accomplish the deed. Their task to slay the Lord of Undeath seemed more perilous than ever now that he was sure to be reunited with his most potent tool of evil.

Now that calm had settled, Brin was able to explain his situation more fully. Sathael’s control over the death knights had been orchestrated by Orcus himself and yet the powerful magic he’d set down had begun to weaken. Brin had been dreaming of late and soon after gained the ability to defy Sathael’s commands so long as she was not directly enforcing them. He was also able to answer the long-standing question of who the real Selena was. She was an archmage who Sathael had captured before enacting her designs upon Elihyel. For reasons unknown, she had created the simulacra the party had encountered so far and had been fond of adopting her appearance. The party was eager to question him further about Sathael’s motives and plans but Brin still posed a threat so long as he was in Sathael’s thrall. The group would need to wait until they had recovered from their battles to attempt to break a spell of such calibre.

Valeria decided to offer the party shelter for the night, as Tadhg wouldn’t be able to create their temple to the Dagda as they usually would. With the rising of the moon in the sky, the cleric was contacted in their dreams by a mysterious figure. They had adopted Tadhg’s appearance but introduced themself as the master of this realm – the god Uvean. He thanked Tadhg for their intercessions on his behalf in protecting the people of Elihyel and assured them that Ravam was doing what he believed was just. Tadhg equivocated, though they still asked for the god to keep his solar away from the party until they had ended the threat to the island. In deference to their noble actions so far, Uvean agreed.

Meanwhile, Kai was visited with less pleasant dreams. He saw the roiling fathoms of the Abyss and its unspeakable horrors. Sathael appeared before him, praising his power and claiming that she might be convinced to show him mercy in the inevitable battle ahead. Kai was far from swayed by her false promises, knowing that she was simply seeking to replace what she had been slowly losing as the death knights were slain. She was not troubled by his defiance, though she could not hope to ensnare him in dreams and was forced to depart emptyhanded.

In the morning, the party set about the task of breaking Brin’s curse. Tadhg called on the Dagda for his intervention with little success, leaving their final option to the capricious whims of wishes. Many tales had been told of wishes gone awry but to all outward appearances this monumental demand, to subvert the enchantments of a demon lord, went according to plan. But such things are never without their costs and Faustus knew that he would not be able to use the spell again. With his newfound freedom, Brin pledged his fealty to Faustus instead, cementing the end of Sathael’s power over the former guardians of the Wand of Orcus.

Next
[Session 25](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2025.md)