---
date: 2020-01-15
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 34

With Yoor’Zogoth’s death, one final threat loomed over the world. Sathael’s defeat had turned his attention away from Elihyel toward other schemes, but the demon prince Orcus had been instrumental in providing Sathael with the means to spread her dark influence. Innumerable heroes had mounted foolhardy quests to Thanatos in the vain hope of destroying him once and for all and the four adventurers were only the most recent in that long tradition. With that knowledge ever-present in their minds, the party used the rest of the Sugar Gold’s journey to Elinsholm to make preparations.

One of the surviving relics of a previous attempt on the dominion of the Lord of Undeath was a map of the plane. No assertions could be made as to its accuracy but it would be useful nonetheless. By the time the Sugar Gold made port and Felicia bid them farewell, the party had devised a plan. There was a considerable probability that the fortress of Everlost would be warded to rebuff direct attempts to plane shift into its vicinity, requiring them to make some form of journey to reach it. However, Sathael had constructed a portal to Thanatos, presumably one relatively close to Orcus’ seat of power. The party had determined taking this established route would be their best course of action.

Returning to Sathael’s tower was as easy as using Dell’s Helm of Teleportation. Only Zubille and the rest of the nothics remained of Sathael’s allies, allowing them to step through the portal to Thanatos without obstacle. The gray stone of the tower gave way to a windswept but equally desaturated valley, capped with a sky of deeper red than any sunset. The balor who had harried them many times awaited their arrival with a grim determination born of his three defeats at their hands, clearly prepared to make one final attempt to kill the party. Observing the impending battle were six throned figures, each clearly marked by the pallor of death that permeated Orcus’ realm.

Despite the powerful gravity-twisting magic the throned beings wielded, the balor remained no match for Kai, both blessed by celestial light from Tadhg and making use of the Holy Avenger. For the final time, the balor was slain, leaving the party to pick off the throned figures. Once the dias of smooth gray stone on which they’d arrived was free of further danger, the sound of wingbeats drew the party’s attention. A roc, reanimated from an untimely death, approached without hostile intent, having seen them arrive through Sathael’s portal.

The roc, Raikaze, indicated that he was responsible for transporting Sathael to Everlost and was confused by her absence. Thinking quickly, Dell fished the statuette Sathael had left in her demiplane out of his bag and claimed that she had been trapped in that form. The party, as her stalwart allies, had brought her here to beseech Orcus’ aid in restoring her to normal. Raikaze, being an animal, was deceived by the lie, willing to take them to Everlost. However, he cautioned the four that their additional numbers would make what was ordinarily a two-day flight into a longer one.

Undeterred, the party climbed atop the massive bird and he took to the skies. From above, the valley was pockmarked with mountainous obelisks, unlike anything that had ever developed on the Material Plane. Gifted with unfathomable speed by the Lord of Undeath, Raikaze moved faster through the skies than any of the party had experienced, making even so lengthy a trip as the one they faced take only five days generous estimates. The downside of this means of travel was that there was no chance that those in the party who required sleep would be able to rest while hurtling through the skies. Each night, then, Raikaze would land to allow them an opportunity to sleep.

On the second day of their flight, they emerged on the other side of the Valley of the Crypt Things, reaching the seemingly endless expanse of Oblivion’s End. Unnaturally flat and inhabited only by the shambling undead, the party was essentially alone for the proceeding two days. The third day of the journey brought with it bouts of unease, as remaining in a land bereft of life begun to unsettle the four. Interestingly, Tadhg, though they were afflicted by a sense of futility at one point (an change that was easily noticeable as unnatural and undone by Dell), was shielded from the worst of this malaise by the holy power of the Dagda – a comforting sign that they were not alone in this abyssal wasteland.

After days of unchanging gray stone beneath them, the horizon was finally broken by the sight of a suspended orb of lava. Raikaze informed the party that an angel had been captured there after a failed venture to slay Orcus. When Dell expressed interest, Raikaze offered to bring them closer, which the rest of the party agreed to with some trepidation in light of their recent dealings with angels.

The orb was held in place by six chains that affixed it to the ground, warm rather than boiling despite the roiling lava that formed the angel’s prison. Dell, using the ethereal property of the cloak he had taken from Sathael, stepped through to find a solar within, held fast by the chains. Assuming that Dell had come to mock his failure, he was initially caustic but when Dell clarified that he had come with the intention of killing Orcus, the solar, named Helios, demanded that Dell free him from his prison. Dell dithered, knowing that it might draw Orcus’ attention to the party, but when he returned to the rest of the group, Tadhg immediately dispelled the imprisonment with the most powerful magic at their disposal.

Helios thanked them for their assistance but declined to join them in the battle against Orcus, as he had been absent from his god’s side for hundreds of years. Obligingly, Tadhg returned him to the Material Plane, from which he could return to the heavens on his own. Raikaze, who had observed the entire exchange, was convinced by the party insisting that they had freed the solar only to send him to a plane where he would be subject to further torment, which seemed to satisfy the roc. Before the party could resume their journey, two figures astride nightmares descended from the skies. They appeared to be Nahlir and Velkas, though the personalities they had retained in their first undeaths had vanished utterly.

The party was able to fend them off, as whatever force reanimated them now had robbed them of the mental acuity that had made them significant threats under Sathael’s control. That was not to say, however, that they were left unscathed and the party decided to make camp for a time. During this time, Faustus returned to Cania to retrieve Brin, who had a grudge enough against Orcus for what he had done to his fellow knights to return to the plane where he had first fallen to the demon prince’s influence.

The following morning, Raikaze set off burdened with one additional passenger, extending their projected arrival to an unknown extent. As the group got closer to Everlost, a storm of dust and fog picked up. It was no mere weather phenomenon, as Raikaze dropped them off just before the worst of the maelstrom with the instruction that they knew what to do and that he would meet them on the other side. Brin, who had passed through this when Sathael had brought the knights to Thanatos, had no memory of what had happened, leaving them with no way out but through.

In the heart of the storm, the party came across a fork in the road. A tombstone marked each of the five paths, bearing the name of those in the party who had succumbed to the embrace of death before – Crampernap, Faustus, Kai, Tadhg, and Thrax. After some debate, the party ventured down the path marked by Thrax’s headstone, leading to another branch at which the four previously unchosen tombstones stood as markers for each path. Concluding that they needed to take the paths in order of each death’s occurrence, they took the way indicated by Crampernap’s grave. When no ill effects overtook them, a proven confidence in their conclusion led to the remaining two choices being made more quickly, leading them safely through the storm to the point where Raikaze awaited them.

With merely a day to go before the party reached Everlost, their trials were not over yet. As the lethargy that was the only means for the party to determine the passage of days in Thanatos begun to overtake them, the rotting remains of a dragon appeared, forcing Raikaze to land when it intercepted them with a blast of its acidic breath. Downed but not too worse for wear, the party prepared to engage the dragon from the ground as it swooped to follow them with an ferocity that belied their proximity to Everlost and the danger to Orcus that they posed…

Next
[Session 35](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2035.md)