---
date: 2019-08-23
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 20

High wooden walls stood around Corome, as unwelcoming as the guards who stopped the four strangers as they approached. The captain of the guard spoke first, questioning the party’s motives for entering the city. Tadhg told him that they were visiting a friend. Nonetheless, the city’s policy required them to present themselves to the baron. The captain was willing to escort the party to the town hall to meet him, which the party agreed to. Within the large keep that served as the town hall, the baron held court. Immediately noticeable were his eyes; they were a solid, dark blue that recalled the depths of the ocean. Oddly, he also appeared to have been crying recently. These strange details were concealed from all of the party, aside from Faustus. He greeted the party, explaining that personally meeting new arrivals was generally not done but their obvious status brought them to his attention. He insisted roundaboutly on divining that they were not extraplanar beings nor undead before allowing them to walk the streets of Corome. Once the spell was complete, he thanked the four for their cooperation and warned them to stay away from the bay, as a family had drowned there the following week.

Now that they were free to go about their business, Tadhg magically contacted Oswald to propose they meet up while they were in the city. He was pleasantly surprised to hear from them and told them he was currently at The Soggy Spirit. When the party arrived, he was finishing a performance, affording the group time to take in their surroundings. Beside the fact that an animated suit of armour was the bartender and the presence of a hooded figure, the sight of a woman crying in the corner of the tavern drew Tadhg’s attention and worry. Before they could address the woman, Oswald completed the song and stepped off-stage to meet with the remainder of the group hired by Valeria and become acquainted with the new additions. He had been enjoying his time in Corome thus far, though he mentioned he had trouble with the crying woman in the past and warned the party against associating with her. When Tadhg made it clear they intended to disregard his advice entirely, he at least begun a good backing song for the occasion.

The woman insisted that she was fine, though her furtive looks around the building told a different story. Tadhg invited to take her outside in order to get her away from any eavesdropping parties in the tavern and allow them to talk openly. She quickly explained that the cultists didn’t want her to speak about what had happened, but her sons have gone missing and she was certain they had been kidnapped by the members of the cult. Their birth dates fell on sacred days for the cult of the kraken, giving them motive enough to take them. Tadhg wasted no time in assuring the woman, Ancilla, that they would rescue her sons. She was deeply grateful for their help and suggested they begin their search at the temple to the gods of Elihyel.

Dell and Tadhg favoured a straightforward assault on the temple while Faustus, with Kai in tow, intended to infiltrate their ranks. As such, the party paired off to accomplish each goal. In the town square, Tadhg inquired loudly and pointedly about the presence of Yoor’Zogoth’s cult while Dell took the simpler approach of shouting about it. Both attracted the attention of the city guard in short order. The captain of the guard charged them with disturbing the peace and spreading outrageous falsehoods about a cult taking root in the city. Any such cult should, of course, be brought to the notice of the baron and weeded out at once. Neither of the two adventurers were convinced by the captain’s lies and continued to harangue him, leading to him giving a final warning before departing. At the temple to the triumvirate, Faustus and Kai encountered the head priest of the temple. Having read the Tome of Uvean, Faustus was able to discern the prayers of those at the temple that would mark them as members of the cult. The ruse went so far as to draw the scrutiny of one of the parishioners but fell apart when it came to discussing the recent drowning. Before admitting defeat, they discerned the entrance to the cult’s base of operations by the runes carved into one of the doors that were marked as restricted access.

The four reconvened on the steps of the temple and exchanged findings. After some discussion, the party decided that there was little preventing them from simply sneaking past the head priest and into the bowels of the church to deal conclusively with the cult. They would return by nightfall, as there would be fewer potential witnesses in the form of templegoers. Tadhg used their time to stock up on diamonds at the jeweler, where they encountered the hooded figure. After a brief discussion about the importance of diamonds in the midst of the plague, they made their purchases and returned to their companions.

As the moon climbed in the sky above, the party approached the doors of the temple. Dell made the four of them invisible, allowing them to sneak past the vigilant priest to pass through the door Faustus and Kai had identified earlier in the day. Beyond it lay a staircase leading down into a labrinthine basement permeated with moisture. The first room they encountered held rows of armoured statues weilding swords. Stepping over the threshold activated a spell that spoke aloud the phrase *with eyes that pierce the ocean deep and mind that travels wide*. It took one failed attempt, causing the statues to grip their weapons more tightly, for Tadhg to recognize the verse as belonging to the song of dedication to Yoor’Zogoth. They finished the line - *no one can sail his sea unseen, no trespasser can hide*. At once, the armours relaxed their stances and the party was able to pass through the room with no further trouble.

The attached room was home to a large mural, filled with the blues and blacks of the fathoms of the deep. A woman knelt by it, praying, but she did not so much as look up as the party passed by her into a lounge. A kobold relaxed on one of the many armchairs. They assumed that the four were new members of the cult but Dell fumbled his lies about his identity, igniting hostilities. They called for reinforcements from the adjoining guard lounge, but Kai made quick work of both the warlock and the guards.

To the north was a room filled with the grisly marks of a dungeon, holding a single prisoner. He seemed to be a human but Faustus saw his true, draconic form. The kobold had sported a ring of keys that Kai diligently worked through until finding the correct key to free the prisoner, despite the fact that each incorrect key generated a powerful shock from the manacles. Conversation with the prisoner as Kai worked revealed that he was truly the missing bronze dragon of the south, Tamaj. Both the dragon and the adventurers had much to discuss, though it would need to be postponed until they had the luxury of time for a long conversation. He would await their return and accompany them back to the surface. For now, the party headed east, opening onto a small library occupied by the hooded figure seen at both the tavern and the jeweler. He addressed Faustus by name as the four entered the room, revealing himself to be Victor Vallakovich, a wizard of Barovia. He told the party that he had been come to Corome with the promise of rarefied knowledge and had been painstakingly insinuating himself in the cult. Of course, now that several of the cult lay dead and their prisoner had been freed, all his work had been rendered moot. He had, however, collected information on the inner workings of the cult that he shared with the party. The baron was the leader of the sect and in recent days they had voiced confusion about the activities taking place near Lake Caiaphas, as they were not the work of the kraken.

The room itself yielded some insight into the cult as well, offering information about those the cult had been monitoring, including Ancilla and her sons. A ritual involving one of those sons, the youngest named Pluto, was due to begin soon in a room to the north, according to Victor. The door to this clandestine spot was barred by a sigil that Tadhg was unable to dispel, causing it to activate. In that instant, the party aside from Kai were struck with a terrible agony that meant they could do little against the force that had gathered in the ritual room. Alerted by the sound of the spell, the baron opened the door to the chamber and begun to lead a group of warlocks in driving the adventurers back. Kai was able to prevent the rest of the group from coming to much harm by ferrying them to safety. The cultists were more focused on beginning the ritual and opted not to pursue the party once they were out of sight. Once the other three had recovered, the party did not make the same choice, redoubling their efforts to prevent the cultists from accomplishing their goal. Their very surroundings worked against them as tentacles sprung from the paintings of shipwrecks and storms that adorned it but the party was able to defeat not only the baron but his accomplices before they could complete the ritual. As calm settled over the space, all eyes turned to Pluto, who had been at the centre of what had nearly happened here.

Next
[Session 21](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2021.md)