---
date: 2019-01-09
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 2

The eleventh day of travel was expedited by optimal sailing conditions but the day did not pass without incident. Several of the belowdeck crew brought a stowaway to one of the higher-ranking crewmembers, Blanquet Pyello, to face judgement, as both Felicia and Zoe were otherwise occupied. He and the party pressed the stowaway for an explanation of his presence, escalating to thinly-veiled threats of making him walk the plank. Under the considerable pressure of five adventurers and a boatswain, the man revealed that he was a bard named Oswald and made some vague statements about why he was onboard. The six were unimpressed by his clear deception and so Tadhg created a zone of truth which Oswald was unable to resist the effects of. Reluctantly, he explained that he had come aboard in Elinsholm in an attempt to evade the authorities that were chasing him down following a theft. He’d taken a few baubles from the crew, as well, which he returned without much further protest before Blanquet took him off to the brig as a temporary measure while the party begun to discuss what should be done with him. Tadhg spent a few minutes communing with their god, the Dagda, about Oswald and learned that though he would eventually create trouble for the party, he was not allied against them, and that his presence would impact their safe arrival at Elihyel. After some discussion, it was agreed that they would simply leave him in the brig and figure out if further action needed to be taken when they reached their destination.

A day later, the weather had worsened considerably and fog obscured all but the closest things on the waves. However, a song drifted toward the Sugar Gold, catching Thrax and Tadhg’s attention though they could not understand the words. Figuring that this was likely not a good sign even if it wasn’t overtly hostile, they called up the rest of the party in case things went pear-shaped. One of the party members, Faustus, was able to determine that the song was in Infernal and that its lyrics spoke of drowning and bargaining for one’s life. Crampernap sent Amicus out into the fog to find the source of the song and the construct found a very small strip of land where four devils sat in wait. Noticing the construct, one of the devils expressed an interest in speaking with the ship’s passengers. Naturally, the party were hesitant to invite fiends aboard but, as they expressed their concerns aloud, the song took on a more menacing tone, speaking of ships that passed them by never making it to port. Felicia, too, figured that they might simply be attacked for ignoring the devils. Cautiously, they stopped abreast of the little island and parlayed with the devils.

At this distance, Tadhg was able to identify three of the devils as amnizus and one as a blue abishai, creatures which were far beyond the party’s current capabilities. The lead amnizu demanded three souls as tribute for passing through these waters and, though the party wanted to avoid hostilities breaking out, they were not keen to give their souls away. Nevertheless, it seemed they would have no other choice but to fight, as even the mention of Faustus’ patron was not enough to intimidate the devils. It was during this exchange that Tadhg was keen-eared enough to notice that the abishai was notably consulting with the amnizu not in Infernal, nor had they reacted to being adressed in Infernal by Faustus. They shared this observation and the suspicious that it drew up with the rest of the party, who concluded that they were likely other creatures disguised as devils. Thrax was the one to bring the accusation to bear, demanding that the amnizu demonstrate their fiendish nature. When they were unable to do so, he hurled Blanquet’s spear toward them, missing but making it clear that the game was up. Over the course of the fight, it became clear that the amnizu were actually a coven of sea hags, though the abishai was what it seemed to be. The abishai put up quite a fight but, once it had been worn down by the party’s attacks and the sea hags had fled after loosing one of their number, it teleported away to avoid being killed.

Eight days later, Valeria rounded up the party and Blanquet (who due to his help in combatting threats to the ship had become a defacto member) and offered them an opportunity to purchase some of the magic items in her possession. She led the group into her own personal demiplane where they had their pick of a wide range of magical items, so long as they could foot the bill. A few purchases were made before the day was up, bolstering the party’s strength. The next day, a storm had whipped up around the ship, heralding the appearance of two young blue dragons, who spoke of the reward that awaited them from Yoor’Zogoth upon sinking the Sugar Gold before attacking. The ensuing battle was a long and difficult fight, mitigated somewhat by Thrax leaping off the side of the boat to grapple one of the dragons, causing it to plunge beneath the seas and thus forcing it to focus its efforts on extricating itself from his grasp before it drowned rather than being able to unleash its wrath on the ship and those aboard it. That said, the remaining dragon was no pushover alone, managing to reduce Crampernap to a state that activated his near-unconsciousness contingency spell, polymorphing him into a huge giant crab. Matters were further complicated when the white abishai Faustus had summoned decided it would be more advantageous for it to attack the party, forcing them to split their attention between two targets. However, the party prevailed in due time, with Tadhg dealing the killing blow, and the four adventurers hurried over to help Thrax kill the other dragon. He had done a significant amount of damage to it already and was able to keep his hold on it and slay it at last, despite its final desperate attempt to escape. Crabernap was able to bring Thrax and the corpse of the dragon aboard with his crabby strength, allowing the party to harvest its scales. The five were then able to enjoy nineteen days of smooth sailing, untroubled and productive on their own enterprises if somewhat boring, but of course, that peace and quiet was not too last much longer.

Next
[Session 03](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2003.md)