---
date: 2019-06-28
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 17

Having returned to Elihyel, Dell explained to the rest of the party that his trial on Mechanus had gone quite well. In turn, the party filled him in on the various goings-on of the day he missed. As the party completed their shopping for various magical components, they discussed the possibilities of utilizing the gate spell to remove the advantages afforded to foes such as Vezira and Sathael by fighting on their own turf. Each casting would be extremely expensive, but Dell would be able to fabricate the needed diamonds from lesser ones. They spent the rest of their free day enjoying the calm of being in town. In the evening, Tadhg had an ominous dream of standing in a field of tall grass during the dead of night. A flash of lightning illuminated the outline of a tower in the distance before they awoke. When morning broke the party teleported to Kiro, encountering a few mishaps along the way in the form of Astral turbulence, but ultimately arriving relatively close to the town.

The settlement had been devastated by Vezira. Not a single soul remained alive in the town and even the buildings had been rotted away by her attack on the town. The sound of a child crying led the party to the wandering ghost of halfling child, who told the four that they shouldn’t be here. Both the undead in the town and the dragon in the woods posed a threat to them. Tadhg assured the ghost that they would be alright just before he faded away. With the forest as their destination, the four left what remained of Kiro behind. The forest was a vast sea of trees, some dappled in autumn colours regardless of the season. The treeline thinned enough in some places to create something like pathways between the larger clearings of the wood. In the first of these clearings that the party approached, a gnome lay dead. Surprisingly, Faustus recognized the gnome from Sadrihalm and Dell confirmed that he had been Tingle Timbers. When Tadhg moved to perform burial rites on his body, they unknowingly stepped into the grasp of a corpse flower and two assassin vines. Despite the horrible stench, the party was able to slay the creature and lay Tingle to rest.

Opposite to the clearing was a sign, written in Halfling, that warned unwary travelers about Vezira. The party continued deeper into the forest, coming across a circle of flowers around which the path conspicuously bent. Suspecting the involvement of fae, the party steered clear and continued on. At the centre of the next major clearing another area that seemed fae-touched where a small grove of autumn trees grew around a glowing flower prompted the party to avoid disturbing the nature there.

They were accosted, however, at the top of a sloping path by a trio of quicklings, who unleashed a boulder trap on the four. Half the party - namely Dell and Kai - managed to dodge the stones while Faustus and Tadhg were bowled over. Once they’d recovered from their surprise the quicklings themselves posed little threat to the party. Further exploration in the area led them to the den of several varieties of troll and a plot of perfectly tilled farmland. Another subtly strange area, a copse of trees rustled by the wind that swayed just off-kilter where voices whispered indistinctly, changed the party’s course to a different clearing further south. Fortunately, it was empty aside from the body of an elf and a faithful dog who guarded it.

At the end of this particular path through the forest, the canopy above thinned to the point that flight in and out would be possible. A voice, belonging to an invisible (though not to Faustus) halfling mounted on the back of a white dracolich, demanded the party leave the woods without disturbing Vezira. An obscure reference to his master made it clear that this halfling was the knight Brin of whom Karaveil had spoken. Confronting him with his name caused him to take flight, presumably to return to Wendalin Tower to the south.

Through a clearing filled with dancing flowers, the party came across a peculiar sight. An amnizu who introduced himself as Abarta sat at the head of a fine table resplendent with a feast. He invited the party to join him and their refusal eventually turned into a fight. His enchantment magic made the battle a tricky one until he was pinned down with a hold monster spell, allowing the party to finish him off without any further resistance. Just beyond the makeshift dinning room, the path through the forest gave way to the largest clearing they had yet seen. Within, the dragon Vezira lay in wait.

She spoke civilly to the party rather than attacking them on sight, recognizing Faustus’ voice from when he had contacted her. Tadhg and Faustus spoke to her while Kai kept the rune Selena had given the party at the ready. Vezira explained that Leilani and Tamaj had mortally wounded her in their battle but Sathael had approached her as she licked her wounds in her lair, offering the ability to restore her wings in exchange for the secrets of perfect immortality. For she knew, uniquely among dragons, Vezira had a link to the fiendish planes and could serve as a go-between for her and Orcus. Through her, the Lord of Undeath told Sathael that his wand had fallen into the possession of three paladins. True to her word, Sathael restored Vezira’s wings but their arrangement ended there.

Vezira despised the undead and their encroachment on her territory and had even gone so far as to ask Ravam to dispose of her, with no luck. Seeing the opportunity to play upon a common enemy, the party convinced the Ancient Plague that they could assist her in destroying Sathael once and for all, as well as provide her with the means to circumvent Sathael’s defenses against her. As a gesture of goodwill, Tadhg offered to hallow her hoard and set about doing so when the dragon provided the necessary components. While Tadhg worked, the rest of the party questioned Vezira and were questioned in return, revealing the depths of her bloodthirsty nature in the process. Still, the alliance held, at least for the duration of the night, allowing the party to recover their strength in the event that the day they would need to break that accord was the following one.

Next
[Session 18](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2018.md)