---
date: 2019-10-15
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 26

Faintly glowing, a sequence of sigils marked the entrance to the only remaining room the party had not yet entered. Inspection of the symbols revealed that they corresponded to each of the eight schools of magic. Between the three spellcasters, they were able to cast spells of each type and release the lock on the door. Inside was a small alcove containing a few chests and an armoured skeleton clutching a sword and a glass orb. At the opposite end, a second door had opened in time with the first, allowing two animate skeletons to attack the party. In comparison to the battle they had just endured, the skeletons were more nuisances than threats, so they were dealt with while Dell and Faustus began identifying the magical properties of the items they had found.

Beyond the second door was a well filled with more animate skeletons. Unlike their brethren above, they were non-hostile and the party sent them to join Gravid’s rave before determining that the cave was secure enough to serve as a shelter for what was left of the night. Using the orb – which had been revealed to be a crystal ball of truesight – Tadhg attempted to scry on Sathael once more. They were successful in doing so and able to observe her study at last. The whirring they had noted during their last attempt at the same was coming from an arcane gyroscope over which Sathael was pouring intently. She addressed the nothic that stood nearby, boasting that all was going well and suggesting they check in. On what or who, Tadhg was unable to discover, as the nothic spotted the scrying sensor and Sathael swiftly dispelled it before revealing any pertinent details.

In the morning, Tadhg asked the Dagda to intercede and restore Faustus’ ability to cast wish. With a vision of blue skies, only just marred by the whitest of clouds, the Dadga proclaimed his blessing and so it was done. Using his regained magic, the party teleported to Fenlaur, eager to deliver the ring to Mardella. They appeared in the library itself, startling Mardella and several patrons but the artifact they brought with them and the possibilities it held overshadowed that. Mardella explained that the Tome of Okallo described a ritual that would allow her to attune Leilani’s soul to the ring despite her sleep, though it would be a long process that would require hours of concerted effort. Without further ado, Mardella and the party went to the castle to speak with Raloth. He was glad to hear that means of reviving Leilani had been found but he had ill news to impart. A few days prior, some sort of incident occurred in Argalin. Cataclysmic weather had blown through the ruin of the town of Rod’Yadin, utterly devastating it. Furthermore, he had received reports of something rising from Lake Caiaphas.

At this revelation that the colossus was in play, the party contacted Brin for any information he might be able to provide to them about it. He knew little, as he was not directly involved in its construction, but he was able to provide a password: Project Empyrean. All other plans for the four’s next moves were set aside in favour of marshalling a force to slay the colossus. Using his newfound Helm of Teleportation, Dell retrieved Brin and Lyco from Wendalin while Tadhg contacted Rosai. As the colossus had risen several days ago, they doubted it had stayed idle in the lake. She confirmed that it had last been seen marching in the direction of Fenlaur and she would estimate that it had reached the border between Argalin and Lunova by now. With this information in mind, the party decided it would be most expedient to teleport to Vilyre to intercept it.

Aside from Brin and his dragon, Raloth sent Ramael with the group and Valeria tossed Jacob in, mostly to serve as a way for her to observe the impending battle. Before the teleportation took hold, Faustus used the password Brin had provided to access Sathael’s notes on her fell design in the Tome of History he still possessed. With Orcus’ assistance, she had animated the colossus with a torrent of spirits but they had no will to drive them. In order to control the colossus, she had forged a proxy pilot, inhabited by Orcus himself. Various notes on its capabilities informed them that it could wield magic with the skill of the Lord of Undeath and had sufficient manoeuverability to destroy Yoor’Zogoth – confirming what the party had suspected about the correlation between the storm over Rod’Yadin and the colossus rising. However, they were able to learn of its limitations as well. Focal points on the back of its hands and its forehead did not possess the resilience of the rest of its body and it possessed vulnerability to psychic, radiant, and thunder magic due to quirks of its design.

Armed with this knowledge, the party teleported to Vilyre. A barely controlled chaos was palpable in the streets as the town was in the process of evacuation efforts. On the horizon, portentous clouds rolled in as the titanic figure in the distance marched inexorably forward. At the edge of the town, the eight made their stand. Waves of lesser undead preceded the colossus, creating obstacles on what was already due to be a long-distance assault. Lyco was able to fly the party into engagement with the front line of zombies, allowing them to begin carving a path to the twisted empyrean that continued to march toward them.

At this point, neither side was in a position to directly attack the other, but the colossus was able to conjure more undead to replace the ones the party felled. Kai, who had downed a potion that made him equal in size to a giant (though still dwarfed by the sheer magnitude of the colossus), bypassed the small army with single-minded determination to engage the colossus directly. Once the colossus had stepped into Faustus’ range, the party gained a respite from its ceaseless summoning of the undead as it was sent hurtling through the Nine Hells. Its reappearance marked a change in tactics from the rest of the party, who split off into three groups. Dell hung back with his turrets to draw the attention of the reanimated giants and Yawners, Tadhg sprinted off to refocus their column of radiant light on the phalanx of undead surrounding the colossus, and Brin and Faustus riding Lyco took an aerial approach.

Once he stood face-to-face with the colossus, Kai unleashed a series of attacks bolstered by the holy light of Voraan’s sword and his greater power in this enlarged form that would have slain any lesser creature on the spot. The colossus, however, stood through the attacks and responded in kind. The smaller undead surrounding it flooded the colossus with necrotic energy, repairing much of the damage Kai had done. Not deterred, Kai pulled together an even more furious assault, leaving the colossus teetering on the edge of destruction. The undead could provide no more healing to the titan and its laser-focus on Kai meant it forewent calling up more zombies from the earth. A well-aimed shot from Faustus spelled the end of the colossus, which crumbled with a deafening force at Kai’s feet. And yet, the battle was not yet won, as from the ruined form of the colossus the proxy over which Orcus had assumed control stepped into the fray…

Next
[Session 27](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2027.md)