---
date: 2019-06-07
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 16

The three dwindled to two when a marut appeared. It silently took Dell, disappearing with only a single card left in its wake. It stated that Dell would be returned from the court of Mechanus in fifty thousand seconds. Kai and Tadhg decide to continue onward into the depths of the tower in the hopes of retrieving Karaviel. Through the door to the north, they found a control panel similar to the one in Lunova Tower used to control the environment of the sibriex. Else, the room was strangely empty, prompting Tadhg to give it a closer look. They felt that something was off about the floor beneath their feet, so they cast detect magic, determining that illusion magic had been cast on the control panel. As they searched the room, the ground cracked, sending Tadhg crashing down into the tower’s lowest level. In this room, a sibriex lay in wait. Seeing the danger it posed, Kai jumped down to their aid. The sibriex questioned the two on their presence and made it clear they wouldn’t be leaving without a fight. Tadhg used their word of recall to the temple to extricate themself and Kai from the situation before it turned deadly.

Within the confines of the temple, Tadhg communed with the Dagda, asking whether Karaviel was truly being held in the tower. The Dagda told them that he was, dashing any plans they might have of leaving the rest of the tower unexplored. In the absence of anything else to do other than await the morning so that Faustus could return, the two headed out to find some stray zombies to slay in the meantime. When they found a pack of gargoyle-type zombies, their fight was interrupted by the appearance of a friendly face - Valeria, who joined in the battle after revealing herself from invisibility. Once their foes were dispatched, Tadhg and Valeria took the opportunity to catch up. As usual, Valeria was cagey about her activities, but indicated that she believed her search would yield significant benefits. Tadhg offered to let her stay at the temple for the evening and she agreed, so they walked back to the temple together.

While Tadhg and Kai were doing so, Faustus had found a spot in the library of Cania to await the closure of court for the day. After a short rest, he met with Mephistopheles and gifted him with the Tome of History the party had recovered from Nahlir’s possession. The two spent the rest of the day in each other’s company. Back at the temple, Valeria shed some light on properties of the Wand of Orcus, at Tadhg’s request, and continued to be shady. That night, Ravam appeared to Faustus in his unprotected dreams in order to chastise him for avoiding death at his hand, thought Faustus summarily ignored it.

In the morning, Faustus returned to the Material Plane. Valeria offered to join the party in their renewed assault on Argalin Tower, bolstering their numbers to what they were when they first entered. Going down to the lowest floor via the stairs, the party came across a room with a statue covering its eyes which lead to a cell where a woman who looked like one of Sathael’s false faces was being held. She said her name was Selena and she had been kidnapped a year ago by Sathael. Tadhg, finding her story strange, cast detect magic and revealed that she was under the effect of illusion magic. However, Faustus could see that this appearance was her true form. When Tadhg attempted to dispel the illusion, Selena counterspelled them, saying she was uncomfortable with spells being cast on her. She asked the party to take her away from the tower to her home in Malayroft but accepted being taken to Araluen instead.

Returning to the sibriex’s lair, the party did battle with the fiend, killing it with their combined efforts. Beyond the sibriex, the party found a teleportation circle and another holding cell. From this cell, they freed Karaviel, who thanked the three adventurers and rewarded them as best he could. He was taken aback by their association with Valeria, however, as she had snuck into the tower to liberate its Tome of History but refused to free him. Still, he was willing to leave with the party and rest at the temple for the night before returning to the heavens. With Valeria’s help, the party put Selena through questioning that made it clear she was lying to them about her identity. In the confines of the temple, Valeria exchanged the tentative conclusion that Selena was a simulacrum with Faustus in exchange for the knowledge Mephistopheles had unlocked from the Tome of History. Fortunately, the knowledge was little more than a child’s diary, so the exchange was easily made.

In deciding to rescind the restrictions against celestials for the temple for the night, the party mentioned Ravam’s actions, which Karaviel was shocked by. He apologized for his fellow angel’s behaviour and said he would be putting in a strongly-worded letter with his superiors. He shared what he knew of the third knight Brin, his captive Ursava, and the knight’s pet which he cautioned the party about facing. Selena took this opportunity to add her cautions to the party as well when they spoke of going to Kiro, insisting that Vezira was not to be trusted to a degree that seemed overstated. Parting ways with Karaviel, the party of five made their way to Araluen uninterrupted.

After the party did some shopping in her demiplane, Valeria returned to her mysterious quest. Selena retrieved a magical item she knew was hidden in the town to assist the party against Vezira - a rune that would prevent her from spellcasting - before setting off on her own. In the evening, Faustus resumed his research into the Wand of Orcus, learning that attuning to it could prove fatal and that a true resurrection of the hero whose skull was used to construct it was the only means to destroy its power. He also contacted Vezira, determining that she had not been resurrected by any outside force - she had never been slain at all. The path to Kiro would be more easily taken by teleporting, so the party decided to take the day off to allow Faustus’ magic to return. Just as they came to this decision, Dell was returned to them just as suddenly as he had disappeared.

Next
[Session 17](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2017.md)