---
date: 2019-10-09
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 25

Shortly after, an air elemental appeared with a delivery for Dell. Its box contained a letter from Norona, who had heard that Dell intended to slay Vezira and sent him several bullets enchanted with dragon-slaying magic to assist him. Since they had last spoken, business had been going well and she was working on the project of mass-producing his firearm design. As the party had fought Vezira nearly a week prior, Dell asked Tadhg (somewhat awkwardly) to send a message back thanking her and updating her on their current goals. Valeria took her leave of the four, grumbling about finding something of magical significance on the island that the party hadn’t yet taken right out from under her nose as she did.

Estimates from their map put the journey to Peregrine Mill at two and a half days length from Wendalin Tower. Without teleport at their disposal, the party would need to travel the distance overland once more so they set out before the afternoon. On their second day of travel, they encountered an extremely shady man whom it turned out collected and sold the body parts of dead monsters for magical and mundane use. Kai used one of the scales he had taken from Vezira to trade for sufficient store credit for each party member to take whatever item struck their fancy, including a flameskull that Dell was intent on re-reanimating.

Well into the third day of travel, the town of Peregrine Mill crested over the horizon. It was a well-fortified town with little activity outside its walls, not even at the mill near the riverside that gave the town its name. A contingent of guards stood at the gates, barring the party’s entry to the town until they submitted to a series of questions regarding their character and their contact with the plague under a truth spell. The party agreed and were allowed entry into the town to seek out the three kings the oracle in Tamaj’s lair had cryptically spoke of.

Unlike the solemn image of the walls outside, Peregrine Mill was a bustling town, its population nearly doubled by the fact that each resident of the town was accompanied by an animal companion. Curious, the party questioned the nearest person about the trend. She informed them that awakening animals was a common practice for the mages of the Mill and it had become something of a local phenomenon. Peregrine Mill was home to a castle where the party might be able to inquire about the three kings but they opted to head to the library first, in hopes that there would be some books to shed light on the matter.

At the library, the party reunited with two familiar faces. Victor, as implied by his parting words, had made his way to the town and it seemed immediately buried his nose in a book. The more surprising visitor to the library was Leo, who had decided that he and Victor were now an adventuring duo after trying and failing to rob him outside the town. The pair were searching for information on Sathael’s lair, hoping to relieve it of its tomes of spells and magic items – oh, and save the island from the threat of the lich too, of course. While Leo tried and failed to extract the location of the lair from the party, they asked Victor if he had heard anything about three kings while staying in the town. He hadn’t but he had heard rumours of a necromancer living in the town who frequented the nearby forest each night. In the absence of any other leads, the party decided to intercept him.

After taking a strand of hair from his house, Tadhg was able to scry on the necromancer as he left the town, allowing the party to follow him through the forest. He was surprised at being accosted by such a strange collection of people, even moreso when Dell and Tadhg started giving him fashion advice, but he did indeed have information about the three kings. He explained that through some arcane means shards of the Shadowfel had been seeping through the veil between planes, resulting in the creation of a shadow dragon. Its master was a skull lord who fit the description of three kings all by himself due to the three heads that made up his consciousness. The necromancer’s place in all this was difficult to describe so he took them to the mouth of the cave that served as the skull lord’s lair.

As the group made their way through the forest, spectres faded in and out of sight, making the influence of the Shadowfel plainly felt. Inside the cave stood two signs. One insisted that the intended audience should break their chains and follow the path to the west while the other claimed that was all nonsense and they should go through the caverns to the east. The necromancer explained that prior to the outbreak of the plague, several skeletons had risen in the forest with unique traits. They were not the mindless undead that could be made by conventional magical means. What he meant by this was that on the west side of the cave was a number of skeletons who had defected from the skull lord’s forces to join a rave established by one Gravid Boneson. It was this strange situation that had caught the necromancer’s interest and he had been visiting the cave every night to observe the festivities.

The mastermind of the revolution told the party that he would be more than happy for them to defeat the skull lord so that the skeleton rave could continue uncontested. Bemused but nonetheless willing, the party made their way toward the eastern half of the cave. Curtains of thick shadow punctuated these passages, marking the Shadowfel’s influence on it. The first of these curtains parted to reveal a strange sight. Another Faustus, identical to himself in every way but the odd effect of desaturation that marked him as a being of the Shadowfel, stood in the party’s path. He addressed himself, claiming that he was disappointed to find he was still traveling with the party, as they were simply leading him to the inevitable fate of eternal torment in Thanatos when they failed in their aims to destroy the Lord of Undeath. Faustus was skeptical but willing to hear the copy’s suggestions for how they should avoid this fate and he claimed all would be well if he simply killed them. The original agreed, though only to allow the party to destroy the false version of himself and pass deeper into the cave.

The second curtain parted on a more horrific sight. A second Kai stood surrounded by the bodies of his former adventuring party, all slain by his own blade. Enraged, Kai immediately drew his sword and told the rest of the party to stay out of the battle. The two Kais dueled, supported by their respective parties, though the reanimated forms of the Kai of the Shadowfel rued the day they met him. As his opponent was himself, the battle was not easily won, but the true Kai prevailed in the end. Once his anger had run its course, Kai grew despondent as he explained that, due to his parents’ neglect of him, those people he had traveled with were ones he considered to be his true family.

Dell met his doppelganger in the room beyond. He had no visions to doom to impart, instead recommending that the party find a key to move on to the lair of the skull lord proper. Knowing by now how things must play out, the party defeated the false Dell, leaving nothing of his creations behind much to Dell’s disappointment. After passing through a room with a strange anthill-like structure that appeared to serve no purpose, the party encountered the final duplicate of their number.

The other Tadhg sat huddled in a corner, clutching the form of a small hamster and lamenting their inability to save the rest of the party. Not even their powerful resurrection magic had been able to help. Tadhg, unable to confront the manifestation of their deepest fear, left the room with a promise to their other self that they would protect the friends they had for the sake of the other Tadhg and the rest of the party followed suit, except for Kai. He knelt down to hug the other Tadhg and insisted that he would be fine. Tadhg replied that they knew he thought that, as the Kai they had lost had told them the same thing, and that his confidence in it had been the worst part before the dissolved into black sand like the rest of the creatures from the Shadowfel.

Bypassing the lock on the skull lord’s chamber thanks to Dell’s work with a lockpick, the party entered into the lair of the undead. A massive dragon stood by the skull lord and, aside from taunts from the skull lord, few words were exchanged before the battle begun. The party was able to deal with the skull lord and his skeletal hordes relatively early into the fight, keeping away from the dragon as they did so. This distance, however, allowed the dragon to meld into the shadows and ambush the party with a wave of shadowy fire that felled every member of the party except for Kai, who was only clinging to consciousness himself.

With the use of potions, he was able to return Dell and Tadhg to consciousness and Tadhg unleashed a wave of healing wave of enough power to restore everyone to their full fighting strength. Even so, the battle with the dragon raged on, as the party had little light at their disposal to counteract the protection its infestation of shadow afforded it from their attacks. At the end of the gruelling fight, the party emerged victorious and slew the dragon, which dissolved into a torrent of black smoke as it died. The back of the cave stood empty of all but piles of bones from the skeletons they’d fought and a ring that had fallen from the finger of the skull lord – the ring of Okallo.

Next
[Session 26](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2026.md)