---
date: 2019-02-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 6

As the party traversed the streets of Olamist, the oppressive gloom over the city cast it in sharp relief to Fenlaur. Along the way, Straid asked how the party had come to know Solafei, kicking off a conversation that wound its way to a discussion about the other visitors to Castle Horatio - namely the regiment returning from Oak’Shira. The soldiers had been responding to a call for aid from the city, where there had recently been a massacre and were staying in Olamist as a waypoint between Oak’Shira and Fenlaur. A poster hanging in the window of a shop named The Book, Book, and Book advertising a promotional event for the Curse of Strahd taking place the following evening caught Tadhg’s eye. When they expressed interest in it, Straid took the opportunity to gush about his love of the book and offered to take the party to the event, as he was already intending to be in attendance.

The party was greeted at the gates of the castle by the lord of the castle himself, dressed in impeccable finery. He offered the hospitality of his court to the six adventurers for the duration of their stay in the city and invited them to the court’s evening meal which would be beginning shortly. Dinner was served in the castle’s grand dining hall, wherein Lord R facilitated introductions between the court and the party, noting the absence of Captain Ramael due to illness. The feast was supplemented by Tadhg’s own conjured food and drink, much to the delight of the court, prompting other magical displays to awe the court, including such feats as punching one another and negating the damage, transforming into a duck, animating the food, and staring stoically into the distance.

With the night’s entertainment concluded, Lord R inquired after the party’s thoughts on the island, lamenting that they had come to such a beautiful place while it was under the leadership of such an incompetent regent. He felt that Raloth should be forged into a stronger rule by the harrowing circumstances of his rise to the throne rather than fractured by it and questioned the wisdom of the clerics who had restored him to life after an accident years prior. The subject of discussion turned to the rumours of a vampire among the ranks of the court, claims that were firmly denied by all those present. Blanquet, seizing the opportunity at hand, framed his erstwhile father for starting the rumours in hopes of Lord R’s vengeance descending on him. Thrax, starting to feel unwell, mentioned his symptoms to those present, though he was assured that it was likely nothing to worry about. Once the meal was over, the party was escorted to their rooms by Valdimar on a peculiar route through the chapel devoted to Voraan, a path owed to the eccentic sensibilities of the castle’s architect.

Enjoying the privacy of sleeping in separate rooms, the party settled down for the night’s rest but, as was becoming typical, their dreams were morphed into portentous ones. Thrax dreamt of the serene landscape of a field of flowers, utterly silent despite the expectation of the rush of the wind through the grass and the sounds of life. Behind him, a voice called out to him and the woman it belonged to spoke to him of beauty and rest and, with a kiss to his forehead, his soul departed. Tadhg’s dream was abruptly interupted by the sound of a knock at the door. Hesitantly, they answered, revealing a robed figure who demanded they depart from either this island or this world altogether, as they were not wanted here. The figure melted away after delivering its ominous message, giving way to the waking world.

Tadhg crossed the hall to wake Thrax for breakfast, finding a horrifying sight within - the green smoke of undeath pouring from his mouth and eyes. Distraught, they called for their allies and attempted to combat the threat that their once dear friend now posed. The battle was not especially dangerous for five seasoned adventurers, with the help of a soldier named Kai who they had met the night before, but the emotional toll it took on the party was more than enough to leave Blanquet and Tadhg in tears by the time the risen corpse was slain. A few members of the court arrived during the party’s attempts to raise their fallen friend and, once they had ensured that Thrax’s body did not pose an immediate contamination risk, they assisted Tadhg in preparing his funeral rites.

Before the body was immolated by the divine flames of the Dagda, Filos drew Crampernap’s attention to bite wounds on Thrax’s neck. Faustus, having been bitten by a vampire during his time in Barovia, correctly identified the wounds to be the work of a vampire. In the wake of the cremation, the party took this information to heart and decided that they would end the vampire of Olamist themselves. However, it was not so straightforward as collecting four prophesied items and slaying the vampire, and so the party went their separate ways for the day, whether to shore up their defenses by purchasing new spells, to grieve for their friend, or to begin the work of rooting out the undead in Lord R’s court. Before Tadhg could retire for the day, Kai approached them to offer his sympathies and, after hearing of their goals on Elihyel, his abilities as a mercenary fighter, both of which were gratefully accepted.

Following some light espionage, Faustus and Blanquet, who had been tailing him the entire time, were approached in the chapel by Ebony, who confronted Blanquet about his attempt to frame his father. In doing so, she let slip that he was being held as a prisoner in the castle, prompting Blanquet to make all haste to enact justice upon the man who had abandoned him and his mother. The act with swift and judicious, condemning Blanquet to an imprisonment that he was at peace with, as he had righted the wrong he had waited his entire life to correct.

Having lost two party members in less than twelve hours, Crampernap and Tadhg decided to rally their flagging spirits by purchasing some furry friends at the pet store and pulling the party along to the Curse of Strahd event at Book, Book, and Book that evening. Matters were significantly complicated when it became clear that Faustus featured rather prominently in the book, in the role of a romantic lead no less. The party’s wandering through the crowds of artists, cosplayers, and live readers was conducted in a baffled haze until a man named Celestes Rechry drew them away from prying eyes to reveal that he was, in fact, Magnus Escher. His status as a vampire brought him under harsh questioning from Crampernap and Tadhg, though it became clear that he had no dark designs on the city of Olamist. On the contrary, he was content to enjoy his newfound fame and the company of his husband rather than pursue any grandiose ambitions.

Once any misconceptions were cleared up, the party returned to the castle for the night. However, they were not finished in their travails that night - it was a shot in the dark but Crampernap had managed to acquire knowledge of a spell that allowed him to enter dreams and, potentially, the magically induced sleep of Queen Leilani. Gathered in Crampernap’s room, the party of four were able to contact the queen and learn what she knew of her imprisonment, though the memories were hazy. As she’d been ensnared by the curse, an angel acting as an agent of Uvean had declared the kingdom no longer had need of her, but she could remember little else and had no insights as to the cause. With a line of communication now free to be traveled, Crampernap contacted Raloth to bear him the good news. The prince regent was overjoyed and anxious to speak with his mother if such a thing could be done, leading to Crampernap teleporting the group to Fenlaur to arrange the long-awaited reunion between mother and son.

Next
[Session 07](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2007.md)