---
date: 2019-11-20
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 29

Sathael did not even blink at their sudden manifestation, reacting to their presence before any of the four could take advantage of the element of surprise. A spectral hourglass appeared at the centre of one of the many magical circles inscribed on the roof, its magic ensnaring Kai and shifting him out of sync with normal time. With the threat a fully capable and mobile Kai posed to her negated, Sathael flew out of his reach and begun weaving her potent magic to bring about the party’s demise and the ultimate victory they had denied her three days prior.

Many of the party’s normal trump cards were unavailable to them, as Sathael had extended the guards against dimensional travel to enclose the roof; only the holy power of the Dagda had allowed them to overcome it during their arrival. Nonetheless, over their days of preparation, the party had conceived a plan to get Kai airborne using an enchanted broom and could still execute it so long as Kai could extricate himself from the clutches of the hourglass. The three spellcasters did what they could to whittle down her defenses and frustrate her spellcasting while Kai broke free of the enchantment and mounted to broom to chase down the lich.

A considerable head-start allowed Sathael to avoid Kai for a time, but the distance between them continued to shrink until he was able to reach melee range. He was able to land enough hits on her to activate her emergency contingency spell and a well-placed barrage of eldritch blasts spelled her doom. A hundred feet above the tower, Sathael’s form slowly dissolved into dust as the sun slowly climbed in the sky. The party had little time to savour their triumph, as they knew Sathael’s phylactery continued to tie her soul to this plane and she would return in the next couple days without their intervention. They had no choice but to search the tower, beginning with the stairway that lay at the southern foot of the terrace.

A winding spiral staircase led out onto the top floor proper of the tower, where the party interrupted an arcanaloth and a sphinx who had been deep in discussion. Both were clearly startled by the four’s appearance and the sphinx ventured the question of whether they were guests of the tower’s master. Kai told them straightforwardly that they had slain the lich and were intent on scouring the tower to locate and destroy her phylactery. After exchanging a look with the sphinx, the arcanaloth sidled out of the room. The sphinx did not seem particularly impressed with the party’s deeds and said she would not help them until Sathael was truly dead, though she would not hinder them either.

The central room in which the adventurers stood was circular, with a door in each cardinal direction. Before they could begin exploring beyond its confines, however, a solemn bell chimed and utmost darkness enveloped their surroundings. When questioned, the sphinx explained that it was the result of an automatic system triggered when intruders were detected. Fortunately, both Faustus and Iron Lad were able to see through the darkness and lead the rest of the group from place to place.

Taking the door to the south, the party encountered a room filled with large saws that would certainly have been a challenge to navigate by normal means. Iron Lad, who had been constructed with withstanding mundane weaponry in mind, was able to move through the room without difficulty and smash the mechanisms that operated the saws, allowing the party to pass through the room behind it. A sealed door gave way to a treasury. Several helmed horrors stood as guards and it seemed Sathael had enlisted sixteen demiliches to defend her wealth. Undeterred, the party begun the process of circumventing these defenses.

The demiliches were, in actuality, realistic props that had been created to intimidate potential thieves – a fact revealed to the party when they tried to attack them. The helmed horrors alone were unable to overcome the party and they laid claim to the treasury after a short battle. Afforded the time to examine its contents, the party amassed a veritable hoard of standard magic weapons and mountains of gold. Though these spoils were welcome, the unknown time limit to Sathael’s reformation from her phylactery ticked inexorably down and the party was anxious to locate it before their hard-bought victory was undone.

Returning to the central room, the party took the eastern door, finding that it led to a considerable library. Several nothics were bustling back and forth, tending to the maintenance of the collection, but they all stopped in their tracks at the party’s appearance. Dell and Tadhg interrogated the nearest nothic on the location of the phylactery while Faustus drifted off to examine the shelves. The nothic told them that Zubille, the most distinguished of the nothics, would be a far better help to them than they could possibly be and there was a palpable air of relief left in the wake of the party when Zubille shouldered the duty of dealing with the party.

Zubille indicated the door to the west as likely leading to the place where Sathael kept her phylactery and this knowledge presented the party with a quandary. Their current method of navigating the tower on Faustus’ directions was sufficient for exploring its halls but it would be difficult to combat the defenses Sathael was sure to have placed around her phylactery if most of the party could not see. Tadhg was able to cast a spell of truesight on themself but dealing with the root of the darkness would be necessary. Zubille explained that the doctor would have set up the hallowing of the tower. He would be downstairs, in his laboratory.

Before descending to the lower floor, the party took the north door to a room Tadhg recognized as Sathael’s study. All manner of illuminating correspondence, maps, and notes were scattered across the desk, including information about inhabitants of the island that Sathael considered to be potential threats to her ends. When they were no longer under the condition of urgency induced by the search for the phylactery, it would prove for interesting reading. At their insistence, Zubille took the party through the library to the staircase. Another door near the staircase led north, however, and drew the party’s attention.

This chamber, flooded with a sickly green acid, was occupied by the arcanaloth and an oinoloth. The yugoloths attacked the party as soon as they entered, enticed by the prospect of the payment they would receive from Sathael if they were able to slay the party. Tadhg managed to dispel the darkness in the room to allow the party to fight effectively and, despite summoning mezzoloths to aid them, the yugoloths were swiftly returned to Gehenna.

On the lower floor, the party found a vivarium of sorts. The walls were broken up into glass chambers, each containing an individual specimen. One of these specimens was Selena - the true Selena in whose image Sathael had crafted the simulacrum she had attempted to use to pit the party against Vezira. With the application of some arcane firepower, the party was able to free Selena and bring her with them. Her imprisonment had weakened her considerably, but she was willing to help dispel the wards Sathael had placed on the majority of the tower’s doors as much as she was able.

The good Doctor Willem was unruffled by the party’s appearance, secure in the protection offered to him by the Prondaelan zealots and the devourer under his control. He went so far as to apologize to the party for inconveniencing them with the darkness, rousing Tadhg’s ire and leading into a fight. The devourer was first to fall against the party’s onslaught, with Willem following suit not long after. Kai went a few rounds with the zealots, managing to knock two of them out with only his fists. Willem’s notes revealed that nearly every type of undead creature could be found among his specimens and his impressive collection of diamonds would be a considerable boon to the party once it was in Tadhg’s possession.

Worn down by the battles they had faced, the party took a short time to rest and recover. During the downtime, they spoke a little to Selena about the circumstances of her imprisonment, though they did not turn up any information they had not learned from Brin. Back upstairs, Dell unlocked the final door, opening a short hallway with a door on the other end. Suspecting that this door would be magically guarded, Dell sent Iron Lad in to punch the door, indeed activating a symbol spell. Its deadly spell unleashed a torrent of flame that Iron Lad weathered with ease, allowing the party to enter into the room beyond.

Three iron golems matching Norona’s specifications were on guard within and a sphere of prismatic light held a book suspended in the air above them. Recalling what Tamaj had said about the importance Sathael’s childhood book of nursery rhymes had held to her, the party was certain that they stood in the presence of Sathael’s phylactery. If they were able to destroy the book, Sathael would be destroyed once and for all, freeing the world from the spectre of her dark designs.

Next
[Session 30](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2030.md)