---
date: 2019-12-23
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 32

After a couple attempts at neutralizing the sources of the beams, the party sent Staufen across the hallway in the form of a rat, allowing him to avoid tripping the security system. On the other side, a control panel that resembled the one Kai had found after their battle with the Ulitharid was attached to the wall. Fortunately, the same password allowed them to deactivate the potential danger of the unknown protections Zaphigun had set in the approach to this innermost chamber.

Providing the correct code did not, however, unlock the door at the hallway’s end. The featureless steel of the door had no outward appearance of a lock, leading Dell to try reducing the door as he had done many times before. Strangely, the door was immutable. Closer examination by Dell and Faustus revealed that the design carved into it was different from the intricate technological patterns that characterized Xualtacia as a whole and that the door was warded against magical tampering. Although it would certainly make their presence known to Zaphigun if he wasn’t already aware, this did leave one avenue of entry still available to the party, namely hitting the door until it caved in.

The moment the door was sufficiently destroyed to allow the party ingress, an explosion was triggered. The blast was not powerful enough to do much harm to the party but in combination with their previous fights, it meant that they were running low on resources as they stepped into Zaphigun’s sanctum. Like the door outside, protective runes had been scrawled beneath the mass of wires and stranger means of powering Xualtacia’s ineffable designs that covered the walls. An elder brain was suspended in this chamber, guarded by a number of the smaller turrets the party had encountered elsewhere in the city, but the most prescient threat in the room was the mechanical suit that stood motionless in its centre. It resembled the constructs that had been used against them in the building where the teleportation circle lay enough that they could recognize its purpose, but it seemed empowered and refined in every detail.

The opaque panes of glass that stood in for its eyes gleamed to life, projecting another illusion of Zaphigun into the room. He warned the party that the robot would not yield to their attacks as easily as the devices they had blasted through on their arrival. Dell quipped back that it would make for good scrap and Zaphigun assured him that little enough of it would remain if they managed to destroy it that Dell would gain nothing of value. The illusion flickered away as the construct begun to move.

While the rest of the party focused their efforts on killing the elder brain, Dell entered the Ethereal plane and flew into the heart of the construct’s chassis under the assumption that Zaphigun would be piloting it like its lesser kin. To his surprise, the construct was completely empty, meaning that it was either being controlled remotely or had been created to be autonomous. Not only was did the revelation reveal how the colossus might pale in comparison to any of Zaphigun’s private undertakings, it meant that he may not be present in the citadel at all. Considering the state of the party’s magical and physical reserves, they would not survive a separate confrontation with Zaphigun.

Outside the mechanical creature, Kai was able to take out the elder brain and several of the turrets had been rendered inert but the construct itself was made of materials that even the party had difficulty inflicting any real damage on. Dell, being proximal to the delicate instruments inside the construct, was able to inflict considerable harm to its systems by disintegrating a considerable part of the control structure. However, the construct was not going to go down without putting up a fight. In a bid to asphyxiate Dell before he could do any more damage, the air supply was sealed off, giving the party precious little time to breech its hull.

The whole party focused their efforts on the construct, leaving them easy targets for the remaining turrets which slowly whittled down the party’s health, to say nothing of the construct’s ability to fend them off with its arsenal of weaponry. Although they were on their last legs by the time Kai was able to land the blow that caused the construct to lose all its structural integrity and fall to pieces, the party was able to free Dell before he suffocated.

This did not afford them much time to catch their breath, as Zaphigun rose from the mass of wires beneath the party’s feet, coalescing in their midst mere seconds after the construct was taken out of play. For the first time, Dell was face-to-face with the man who claimed to be his kin. The conflicted feelings that the artificer had pushed aside while the party trekked through Xualtacia were brought to the fore by being forced to directly confront Zaphigun and consider the reality that he would have to kill his own family.

In a final bid to avoid what had seemed inevitable, Dell offered Zaphigun a ceasefire. Knowing from their trip to the library that Zaphigun had returned to this time in order to achieve immortality and reasonably sure that he was still alive in Zaphigun’s present, Dell assured his great-grandson that if he was at all the same person in the future that he was now, he would be willing to help Zaphigun. They were, after all, family. Zaphigun, uncertain whether or not he should believe Dell’s words, did not immediately accept but he did focus his attacks on the rest of the party as he searched for any signs that Dell was playing on their familial connection to deceive him.

Once more, Dell iterated his willingness to unlock the secrets of artificial immortality with Zaphigun if he was willing to make amends for his role in the nigh destruction of the world in the future. To make the sincerity of his words tangible, he gave his remaining bullets of lich-slaying to Zaphigun, pointing out that if he truly wanted to kill Zaphigun, he would have been using these against him. Convinced that Dell meant what he had said, Zaphigun ceased his attacks and an uneasy peace fell between him and the rest of the party.

After some discussion, Dell emphasized that although he had been motivated by not wanting to have to kill a member of his own family, his help in the future was predicated on Zaphigun reforming and not simply stopping any dark designs he had formulated for Elihyel. Zaphigun agreed and said that he would begin with the destruction of Xualtacia and the restoration of the city’s thralls to consciousness. He had lingering reservations about the effects even the remnants of the technology of Xualtacia would have on this time but nonetheless he offered one of the mechanical suits to Dell as a sign of his gratitude for sparing his life. Dell, however, refused and said that he would prefer if the two of them made something together in the future when they eventually met again.

While he worked to free the thralls from mental subjugation, he and Dell discussed where they would go from here. Zaphigun had dissembled the machine that he had used to return to the past but he would be able to reconstruct it, given time, and return to his proper place in the timeline. He intended to do so as soon as Xualtacia was destroyed. He also returned the remnants of Tadhg’s sending stone to Dell with some measure of retroactive embarrassment for having destroyed it, but Dell was sure he would be able to repair it for them without much difficulty.

With the thralls returned to self-awareness, the remaining problem was transporting all of them to a safe location where they could be rehabilitated. Zaphigun was able to bridge the teleportation circle that had formerly been connected to Sathael’s tower to the city of Fenlaur and maintain the portal long enough for everyone to travel safely back to the capital. Dell and Tadhg took the former thralls to the church of Voraan and financed the considerable task of restoring them to their full capabilities.

Outside the church, the party encountered Jacob and Valeria, who were laden with enough luggage to make it clear that Valeria had found her mysterious quarry and intended to leave. Of the remainder of the party, only Faustus and Tadhg were contracted to escort her back to Elinsholm but the date specified in that contract was still two weeks from now. Neither of them were interested in doing anything other than following the deal to the letter, feeling that they had earned some time to themselves after killing a lich.

In the following fourteen days, the party were free to pursue whatever they wished. Tadhg worked with the clerics of Voraan in healing their many new patients, Dell completed the construction of a number of new magic items, Faustus took the opportunity to enjoy the hospitality of Cania, and Kai did a minor amount of governing of Olamist but more importantly resolved an old rivalry with a former pit-fighter who had bested him in the past.

In the final days of their stay on the island, Felicia and Zo reconvened with the party to discuss the logistics of leaving the island by boat. Yoor’Zogoth remained a potential obstacle for them, as he had warned them so many months ago that they would not cross through his waters again. The party was undaunted in light of the many forces of Elihyel that they had contended with in the past and voiced their intention to fend off the kraken if necessary. The crew of the Sugar Gold were confident in the party’s abilities and agreed that they would brave the potential danger of taking the party out to confront the Island Drowner.

As the party boarded the ship, the two that had sailed in on the Sugar Gold reminisced on all that had happened over the past season while the newcomers settled in the banter easily enough. Shortly after, they weighed anchor and left Elihyel’s shores behind, bracing themselves to face an enemy who even Sathael at the height of her power had not dared to face directly.

Next
[Session 33](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2033.md)