---
date: 2019-02-13
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 5

Safely ensconced within the walls of Castle Soth, the party once again enjoyed sweet dreams - with the exception of Tadhg, whose sleep was again troubled by prophecy. In their dream, they were sailing away from their home, leaving Ketim behind, when the landmass was swallowed up by the ocean and a horrible visage formed in the gathering clouds above. Before the dream could descend any further into the depths of horror that the sign portended, they woke to a knock at the door. A number of footmen arrived at the party’s rooms in the morning, bearing an invitation to breakfast with the Prince Regent. Awaiting them downstairs was a lavish feast and several other attendees, namely the delegates from Olamist and the King Consort, who, though weary, extended his thanks to the party for their attempt at restoring his wife. For his part, Raloth extended the hospitality of the castle to the party so long as they were in the city. Solafei did much the same, cheerfully telling the five adventurers that they should call upon her if they ever visited the city of Olamist. Over the meal, the party inquired after several landmarks in the city that were of interest, including Willy’s Magicial Trinkets and Maps, the local cartographer.

List in hand, the party begun their day of shopping. The first stop was made at the cartographer, in order to procure the shop’s most accurate map for their future travels across the island. With that most crucial step taken care of, the group visited a bookstore for both mundane and magical literature. Its marquee product was the best-selling debut novel of M. C. Escher. Tadhg purchased a copy, along with a few other books, while Crampernap purchased Baby’s First Spellbook™. Across the street, the city’s library was their next destination. Few people were actually using the library, the reasoning for which became clear when the haggard librarian quoted the entrance fee after being startled awake by the party’s approach. Faustus, however, was keen to peruse the stacks and so he parted ways with the rest of the group for a few hours to do just that, as well as borrow a primordial-to-common dictionary for Tadhg to consult in their translation of Oswald’s song.

In quick succession, the party knocked out purchases at the jeweler (a diamond to the tune of 500 gold), the general goods store (a crowbar, portable ram, set of “normal clothes” and sheaf of fabric), and the sporting goods store (hand wraps). Meanwhile, Faustus read up on the history of the Prondaelan bloodline, the court at Olamist, and the kraken, finding both heroic tales such as Queen Leilani’s defeat of the fell dragon Vezira and shadowy rumours of devout followers of Yoor’Zogoth residing in Corome. While trying to circumvent the restrictions on the library’s restricted section, he overheard the frustrated voice of the librarian, who had returned to pouring over her books. Seeing an opportunity to solve both their problems, he agreed to provide her with the help of five accomplished adventurers in exchange for access to the restricted collections. She explained that the disarray of her desk was the result of research into potential ways to break the enchantment on Queen Leilani. Three books containing information about the gods Uvean, Voraan, and Okallo are likely her best potential sources but they were last requested by a person named Rosai, at an address in the city of Vont’Al. Due to its distance, it might take some time, but the promise was made that they would be returned to the library with all due haste.

The party reconvened outside of Willy’s Magical Trinkets and exchanged information before heading inside. The proprietor was a strange man in the vestments of a cult and his wares, which included a fan that blows warm air and an eye that allowed the user to only see food items, were strange at best and - as it turned out - illusions at worst. A visit to the pet shop on behalf of Tadhg’s hamster produced another odd incident when the person presiding over sales turned out to be an awakened rat named Curtain and an awakened cat named Shalquoir in the absence of the shop’s owner. Though their situation was odd, they were quite pleasant. Before the party headed outside the city’s walls, Blanquet took a quick trip to the blacksmith and exchanged single-word negotiations for a sword with the smith.

Beyond the walls, the party came across Felicia, Jacob, Zoe, and Oswald, guided by a ranger named Arn’Fera. The four informed the party that they would be staying in the city for the foreseeable future. Characteristically, Crampernap took the opportunity to heckle Oswald on the way out. After a quick stop to purchase a carriage and horses, the group begun their passage to Olamist, which was the closest of the two cities that had drawn their attention. Three days of travel passed peaceably, aside from the grisly sight of a carriage crash, and a solitary camp along the path. That night, however, the calm was broken by the appearance of a knight astride a nightmare. He demanded the party declare their business in Olamist and their names before informing them that he was here to serve as their executioner. He was accompanied by a small band of zombies and portals, who fought at his command, and battling him was no simple task, as he possessed magic that rivaled the party’s strongest spells in power. In the end, he managed to slip away into the Ethereal plane and beyond Crampernap and Tadhg’s ability to scry on his location.

Hoping to wait him out, they tried to do so again in the morning but found that a scrying sensor had been placed on them instead, though it disappeared soon after its existence was discovered. During the last leg of their journey, Tadhg presented Faustus with a transcribed version of the phonetic copy of Oswald’s song for him to make sense of. The song told of the might and majesty of the kraken and, though it held no sway over Faustus’ mind, it settled in Tadhg’s as a catchy tune is wont to do. On the evening of the fourth day of travel, the five arrived in the sun-choked city of Olamist. Once identification was presented, the party was waved in by the guards and a message was sent to Solafei that they would be taking her up on her offer. She met the party soon after, accompanied by a man named Straid who had an uncanny resemblance to the former lord of Barovia, and beckoned the group to follow her to the castle to seek and audience with the elusive Lord R.

Next
[Session 06](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2006.md)