---
date: 2019-04-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 11

The remainder of the second floor of Lunova tower was sparsely decorated, containing little other than bedrolls. Continuing to the third floor, two muscular elves awaited the party at the behest of the master of the tower. During the course of the ensuing battle, the party glimpsed the corpses of various quasits littering the ground. Before they could cut through their attackers, the sound of chanting in Elvish drifted down from the tower’s highest level. Keen to prevent what they surmized was some type of summoning, the party slew the hired muscle and headed up the staircase. At the top of the staircase, “Sela” stood flanked by two fishbowls. Kai threw a handaxe at her, revealing her to be an illusion. Now having a chance to observe their surroundings, the party was surprised to see the room was adorned with paintings and statues not of the wizard who made her lair there but of Faustus.

Before they could consider the sight much further, the summoning circle inscribed on the floor of the room glowed with a bright light, calling the angel Ravam on to the Material Plane. The two fishbowls, rather than attack the party, bowed deeply to Faustus. Ravam rounded on the party with the intent to smite them where they stood and the party quickly put two and two together. “Sela” had decorated the room to incriminate the party and eliminate either the party or the angel. As he made to attack the four, Faustus attempted to talk him down while the rest of the party destroyed the zombies. The combination of zombie slaying and truth-telling convinced the angel before the first blow could be struck against the party. Instead, he redirected his arrow to the final zombie, instantly obliterating it. The situation was not entirely defused, as Ravam demanded to know why the party was present in the tower. Keen to prevent the angel from attacking, the party provided as much of the truth as they knew about the wizard and her intentions. When they touched on the presence of the sibriex Targa Zul in the bowels of the tower, Ravam honed in on this and commanded the party to interrogate the demon. With the angel in tow, the party returned to the chamber where Targa Zul languished. Recognizing that Ravam was of an order of angels far beyond its station, the sibriex fled back to the Abyss.

Thwarted from unleashing the wrath of Uvean, Ravam declared his intention to level the tower, though he offered the party an hour to empty it of any contents they found value in. Recalling the devourer guarding the chest in the upper basement floor, the party returned to claim the treasure it guarded. Having had a day of rest, the demon fell beneath their assault within seconds, yielding a trove of magical items. They examined the room where the barbarian had fought them in greater detail, noticing a standard that Dell was able to identify as belonging to an old group of barbarians. No other unexplored rooms of the tower remained and so the party returned to Tadhg’s temple. As they traveled south, storm clouds gathered above the tower. The heavens opened up and rain poured down as Ravam begun the process of decimating the tower. With such poor conditions for travel, the party elected to spend the rest of the day within the temple. Dell and Norona bonded over mechanical minutiae, Tadhg composed a few poems and played Yoor’Zogoth’s song, and Faustus used the spell he had recovered from the library of the Amber Temple years prior to transport himself to Cania.

Morning broke and the storm with it, allowing the party to complete their journey to Oak’Shira. The first of three days passed peacefully but on the second, just as the party passed the border into Argalin, a man playing the bagpipes crossed their path. Tadhg, as a fellow bagpipist, struck up a conversation with him. He asked for a song, which they obliged, though the song they’d intended to play was replaced as they played by Yoor’Zogoth’s hymn. At this point, Faustus stepped outside and, with his witch sight, saw through the man’s illusion. In truth, he was a pit fiend who was intending to gain the souls of travelers. With his identity revealed, the jig was up, and so they parted ways somewhat awkwardly. That evening, the robed figure who had haunted the party’s dreams appeared to Faustus. They revealed themself to be “Sela” and traded insults and provocations with him before transforming into a monstrosity. Tadhg was visited by Ravam, who apologized through gritted teeth for his hostile appearance to them in Lunova Tower and requested their assistance in locating two Devas who had gone missing in addition to Uriel. The angel appeared to Kai and Dell in turn, though quirks of his behaviour tipped the both of them off to the fact that it was truly “Sela” assuming his form, allowing them to circumvent her attempts to gain information from them.

The third day of travel ended with the party’s arrival in Oak’Shira in the late afternoon. The town was still recovering from being besieged by zombies. While browsing the wares, Kai came across Leo, who revealed that Reggie was in town. He and Tadhg went to speak to Reggie, asking how he had been doing since they’d last met. He indicated that he wanted to travel to Vont’Al and pursue an acting career. Since they were already on their way to the city, they invited him to accompany them, a proposal he accepted. Meanwhile, across the town, Dell encountered a person dressed in protective clothing to ward off the effects of the plague sweeping the country, as well as an old man who informed him that Hook Port was being terrorized by ghosts. As night approached, Tadhg hurried to the town’s temple to Uvean to make a donation to repay Uriel for his assistance in storming the tower.

The party, with the new addition of Reggie, set off in the morning. Given the circumstances under which they’d met, conversation between Reggie and the party was somewhat awkward, though they were able to bond over the Curse of Strahd novel. On their second day of travel, the carriage was ambushed by Leo, who had returned to his old tricks only days after assuring Kai he had turned over a new leaf. Kai and Tadhg, intending to mess with him, coerced him into joining the journey to Vont’Al and bothered him with book readings and music for the remainder of the day. Another individual waylaid the party on the road the following day - a man astride a nightmare. He claimed that he was interested in the party’s own nightmare, given that he had acquired one himself. However, the lie did not hold up to scrutiny.

Bowing under the clear distrust, he admitted that he was an agent of “Sela” and combat began. Like his master, he was accompanied by two zombies, though they were of the Space Jam variety. Adopting similar tactics to Nahlir, he used his nightmare to step past the border Ethereal. Unfortunately for him, Faustus pursued him on Murmur and sent him hurling through the Lower Planes. Then, while he was gone, he commanded the other nightmare to flee, stranding the man in the Ethereal Plane when he returned. Back on the Material Plane, the party took out the two zombies before gearing up to take care of the knight. However, when they stepped back into the Ethereal Plane, he had already made his escape.

Next
[Session 12](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2012.md)