---
date: 2019-01-16
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 3

The party had resorted to offering artistic criticism to Crampernap on his latest doll when Felicia joined them abovedeck, seeking to break up the monotony by proposing a challenge. Producing a spyglass, she declared that whoever was skillful enough to best her in a duel would win it as their prize. The terms of engagement laid out rapiers as the weapon of choice, where the winner would be the one who could disarm the other first. Most of the party bowed out, as they had no proficiency with such weapons, leaving only Blanquet and Thrax in the running. Thrax volunteered to go first and, with brute-force rather than deftness, was able to disarm Felicia at the very start of the match. She was amused by his unconventional approach and honoured her word, handing over the spyglass to him. Reminded by this exchange of valuables, Tadhg approached Valeria to sell the greataxe the party had picked up from Gorkan, leading to another quick demiplane shopping trip wherein most of the party picked up items or weapons with their increased currency counts. As evening approached, Tadhg headed over to take part in the crew’s nightly round of gambling, joined by Blanquet, Thrax, and, for the first time since he’d embarked, Jacob. Over the course of the game, they made small talk with him and learned that he was starting to feel similarly weary of their journey, missing the comforts of the capital city where he and Valeria did most of their business, and tiring of Valeria’s insistence on treating him like an employee rather than a business partner. After a tidy win on Tadhg’s part, the three party members headed back to their quarters to sleep.

Not all of the group’s rests were uninterrupted, however, as Crampernap and Faustus awoke seemingly without cause late that night. The reason was made clear soon enough, as a deer skull wreathed in flames exploded into being. It was clear at once to Faustus that this was a visit from his patron, who warned him that a force of considerable magical power had dominion over Elihyel and that it had consequently been plagued by undead. He requested that, as Faustus was already on his way there, he return to Cania with the one responsible in tow, ideally alive. Tadhg’s rest too was disjointed with strange dreams - they dreamt of a well-dressed elven woman sleeping with a sword at her side, people engulfed with panic, and a field where green mist was pouring out from the depths of the earth.

Over breakfast the following morning, the party exchanged tales of their adventures prior to their meeting in Elinsholm, with varying degrees of embellishment. Not long after, Tadhg wrote down the details of their dreams in their journal, a process that they eventually noticed Blanquet had been observing. Inviting him over to read it properly, they talked over what the possible significance of the dreams might be, with Blanquet trying his hand at dream interpretation and Tadhg asking the spirit of their mother contained within their ring for her thoughts on the matter. In the end, they were not able to come to a solid conclusion on whether they were prophetic or simply strange. Faustus spent some time contacting a spirit of his acquaintance as well, namely that of Strahd von Zarovich, and the two exchanged insults.

The next day, Crampernap heard the sound of singing drifting up from the brig in a language he didn’t recognize. He made his way to Oswald’s cell to ask him about the song but the conversation soon devolved into a fight. Crampernap ended up knocking the bard out and absconding upstairs, letting Tadhg know that Oswald needed medical attention. After asking Blanquet to get the keys to the brig, they and Thrax went to find out what had happened. Oswald, once conscious, tried to spin the tale in his favour but Tadhg saw through it easily and got a true account out of him. They then returned to the deck of the Sugar Gold and scolded Crampernap for attacking Oswald before heading back to get the answers that Crampernap had originally been seeking. Oswald told them that he wasn’t certain exactly what the song was but stated that he had never heard any humanoid sing it. Before they could get much more out of him about the song, their conversation was cut short by Crampernap’s fly-by flipping the bird. Four days later, when tempers had settled, Tadhg spoke with Oswald again when they found him humming the tune, drawing out of him the fact that something about the song made him want to sing it. Concerned by the sound of that, they attempted to discern whether he was under some form of enchantment and, though unsuccessful, cast dispel magic just in case.

A day later, Valeria joined the usual suspects at the gambling table, betting a ring rather than any gold. Neither Tadhg nor Faustus were able to win it from her but Blanquet simply pickpocketed her on his way out. Early the day after, Valeria made it known that the theft had not gone unnoticed and gave the party a chance to admit to the act. When no one stepped forward, she used her magic to locate the ring, finding that it had been placed on one of Crampernap’s dolls. This cast suspicion on him but before she could put him to any line of questioning, Blanquet and then Thrax both admitted to stealing it. Rather than allow them to deceive her, she peered into Blanquet’s thoughts to find that they were indeed the culprit. Caught red-handed, he admitted that he had done it and gave her a single gold in apology. Exasperated but in possession of the ring, Valeria returned to her room.

Two more days of the journey passed and, with only nine remaining, it seemed that the party would encounter no more hostile forces before reaching their destination. A light rain had pattered down and a large shark swam up beside the ship, uninterested in much other than its own sharkly concerns. Thrax and Tadhg were thrilled by its presence and Thrax immediately declared his intention to wrestle it. Obligingly, Crampernap made Thrax large enough to actually accomplish the task and he waded out to do just that. The shark and its cohorts were none too pleased and attacked not only Thrax, as was natural, but the Sugar Gold, signalling to the party that something was amiss. Keeping the sharks at bay was no simple task but Tadhg’s ability to manipulate the tides swept them away from the boat while the rest of the party picked them off. Once the battle was won, Thrax hoisted one of the sharks’ bodies up on deck for a future dinner and Blaquet promptly went to sleep.

A further two days passed in peace until, at noon, those on deck saw a huge spout of water form in front of the ship, heralding the arrival of a marid flanked by two water elementals. He claimed to be the master of this domain and sounded ready to launch into a whole speech demanding they leave when Thrax took issue with his claims, arguing with him long enough for the rest of the party to join him abovedeck. They could have gone on for quite some time were it not for the fact that Crampernap made his first strike with a minute meteor, setting off the brewing tension. Despite his boasts, the fight was considerably brief, as Tadhg managed to transform him into a rat and leave him in the ocean to drown unceremoniously while they took down his elementals. Jacob, who had been visibly on-edge relaxed at the sight of the party’s victory, explaining that Valeria had predicted they would be attacked by Yoor’Zogoth today. The party, puzzled by this, eventually concluded that perhaps the supposed kraken was merely an alias of that this marid was using, though they were far from certain.

As the length of the remaining voyage lessened past a week, the evening gambling was interrupted by a crewmember informing Tadhg that Oswald appeared to be dead. Alarmed, they rushed to the brig and checked on his condition, finding that he was merely unconscious. As soon as he had been revived, they asked what had happened and he told them that he had been thinking of the song before he’d passed out. Tadhg was worried by this escalation in the song’s effects and attempted to dispel its effects again, though they couldn’t tell if it worked. The next day, they sought answers from the Dadga, learning that the song was dangerous and could not be neutralized or destroyed, and on an additional day of questioning, that its danger was nigh and it was too late to stop it. Such a dire warning was at odds with the day’s beautiful weather and the excitement of the crew as the island of Elihyel came into sight. Slowly but surely, however, each and every person aboard the Sugar Gold heard a voice in the back of their minds whispering in Primordial and then in their own native tongues, that though by all rights he could destroy them all for trespassing in the blink of an eye, he was amused enough by their exploits to offer them amnesty. But the crew didn’t breathe easy for long, as he made it clear that his mercy did not extend to leaving Elihyel, essentially trapping them on the island for the foreseeable future and casting a pall over their arrival, at last, at the island.

Next
[Session 04](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2004.md)