---
date: 2019-04-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 12

In response to her agent’s swift defeat, “Sela” reappeared in Faustus’ dream, offering the party anything they might desire to stop sticking their noses into her business. Naturally, she was refused. Unimpressed, she declared that she intended to accelerate her plans before vanishing. Kai was visited by one of the two kidnapped devas, Karaviel. Kai was concerned that he was not who he seemed but the deva was unable to offer any confirmation of his identity. He told Kai that he was being held south of Lake Caiaphas in the Araluen Hills and then disappeared. The party completed their journey to Vont’Al by the following afternoon, allowing them time to seek out Rosai. They headed to the city’s post office to ask for her address. The woman at the counter recognized the name, though she was hesitant to provide the information to the party. She told them that she knew Rosai had been attempting to find a solution to the plague of undead and, in light of that, she wanted the party’s word that she would not come to any harm. They gave it and she told them where they could find the Steel-Hammer home.

A contingent of guards and individuals wearing the same protective clothing Dell had seen in Oak’Shira guarded the door though they didn’t attempt to bar the party from approaching. They were met at the door by one of the residents of the house who listened to and then dismissed their insistence that they needed to speak with Rosai, claiming that her sister required the books in order to defend Argalin and understand the nature of their enemies. Fortunately for the four, Rosai herself appeared at the door and invited them in to hear what they had to say. The adventurers repeated their request on Mardella’s behalf. She agreed that the books would be better used in service of breaking the curse laid on Leilani, despite the vulnerability it would create in Vont’Al’s defenses. She explained the circumstances under which she had learned of the books, telling them that she was visited by Okallo several months ago. He informed her of the books’ location and she subsequently traveled to Fenlaur to collect them. When she returned to Vont’Al, they seemed to awaken. She found powerful magic within their pages and felt imbued with the ability to glean from them exactly the information she needed.

With the tomes, she made significant progress in studying the zombies and shared what she had discovered with the party. In kind, they told her what they knew of “Sela”. Now armed with the knowledge that the zombies lacked the ability to see in the dark, Chy’Kira, Rosai’s sister, provided them with a pair of goggles of night. Tadhg sent a message to Valeria, wondering whether they could procure another pair of goggles from her. She told them that she could meet them in Vale Port or send it their way with an arrival date of a few days later. Chy’Kira smoothed the complication over by simply offering a second pair. She offered, too, a position among her specialized guard, the Plague Hunters, though the party demurred.

With their most pressing task completed, the party split up to take care of their own individual plans: Faustus studied the contents of the Tome of Uvean, learning that it contained all manner of writing from parables to ritual magic. Tadhg contacted Ketim to ensure their safety and purchased some spell components. Dell formalized his business partnership with Norona and the two shared their respective inventions. Kai took Reggie to the theatre and wished him well in starting his career as an actor.

Just as the sun was setting, a gigantic column of green light shot into the sky, emanating from a location to the southwest of Vont’Al. Kai, who was the only member of the party outside at the time, rounded up the rest of the group and the four discussed the ominous sight. Tadhg, recalling that Valeria was in that general direction, called her once again. Valeria informed them that it had originated in the town of Rod’Yadin, the epicentre of the undead plague. Concluding that it could only be “Sela’s” doing, the party decided to head to Rod’Yadin as quickly as they could, resulting in Tadhg asking the Dadga to intercede on their behalf and transport the party across the kingdom.

Rod’Yadin was a ghost town, inhabited only by an army of zombies. There among them stood “Sela”, whose true form was revealed by Faustus’ witch sight. Her true appearance was corpselike and she wielded a skeletal wand. She offered the party the chance to leave the island one final time before unleashing the full extent of her power on them, downing all of them except Kai, who was able to pull through by the skin of his teeth. He revived Tadhg who, realizing that they stood no chance against her in their current state, translocated the party through the planes to the realm of Cania. Out of hostile territory, the party was able to get some well-deserved rest. Faustus enlisted the imps in copying out the texts of the tomes of the gods they would be returning to Mardella and took the opportunity to spend some quality time with his patron.

Tadhg and Faustus’ dreams were marked by visits from “Sela”, who was unable to determine their location and hoped to gain it from them, though neither were willing to make it so easy for her. In the morning, Faustus perused the library in search of information on the wand “Sela” possessed, determining that it was the Wand of Orcus. Recovered from their ordeal, the party returned to the Material Plane, moving directly to Fenlaur. The four returned the tomes of Okallo, Uvean, and Voraan to the library of Fenlaur, allowing Mardella to begin researching a means to restore Leilani and gaining access to the restricted section. Faustus took his leave of the party to absorb the forbidden lore while Dell, Kai, and Tadhg headed to the castle to appraise Raloth of all they had learned since leaving the city.

The library’s restricted books shed light on the barbarians they’d encountered in Lunova Tower, who were divinely chosen to serve the Prondaelans and blessed with the innate ability to sense royal blood, and on the true extent of Yoor’Zogoth’s influence over the island, particularly the town of Corome. Several books also described the mysterious Araluen Hills as the resting ground of a monster and the breeding ground of zombies long before the current outbreak. More damningly, it cast aspersions on the royal family, suggesting that Leilani had a form of magical control over the dragon Tamaj on the south cape and that she had slain her own sister. This sister, Sathael Prondaelan, was an unpopular candidate for the throne and it was whispered that she was concerningly interested in dark magic.

At the palace, all the pieces of the puzzle were pulled together when Raloth, at the party’s request, showed them a family portrait of his mother’s family, one of whom bore a striking resemblance to “Sela”. The possibility that Leilani had been responsible for Sathael’s death was aired less-than-tactfully by Faustus, shocking Raloth, who didn’t believe a word of it. Now secure in their knowledge of their enemy’s identity, Tadhg spoke with Queen Leilani for the first time, breaking the news of her sister’s villainy to her. She told Tadhg the story of her sister’s disappearance, highlighting her interest in the immortality of dragons and her disinterest in the throne. Despite what she had heard of Sathael’s actions, Leilani insisted that Sathael would have no reason to hold a grudge against the kingdom and looked fondly on their childhood together, though Tadhg got the impression that she did not entirely believe her own words. Nonetheless, she thanked Tadhg for their efforts and implored them to save Sathael if they could, convinced that she was under some dark influence.

Back in the waking world, Kai (rightfully) punched Faustus for nearly getting them executed for treason and the four retired for the night. When Sathael came to call, Dell allowed her to speak to him in his dream, only to reveal his knowledge of her true name and sever the connection. Kai simply insulted her when she briefly forgot exactly what kind of person he was and contacted him. Faustus, interested in hearing her account of what had happened between herself and Leilani, sat down for a spot of tea, managing to pry little from her other than her various dread titles before dawn broke the next morning.

Next
[Session 13](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2013.md)