---
date: 2019-04-25
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 13

In light of the paradigm shift of the past day, the party took stock of the locations of interest on the island. After some discussion, they concluded that the rescue of Karaviel should take precedence. To expedite travel to the Araluen Hills, the four purchased passage on a ferry from Fenlaur to the town of Vilyre. As the only four passengers aboard, the journey was a quiet one until a small contingent of zombies shuffled up along the south bank of the river. The zombies simply stood and watched the boat go by, showing no obvious aggression, but the party was not inclined to allow them to make the first move. With the use of long-range tactics, the party’s spellcasters dealt considerable damage to the undead. When they waded into the water to approach the boat, Tadhg pushed them back to the shore with a crashing wave of water. The zombies sent out a call for reinforcements that was answered by their brethren but within moments the party slew them regardless. Despite the summons, the ferry was untroubled for the remainder of its voyage to Vilyre. Tadhg inquired with the captain about the status of travel by Lake Caiaphas and was told that no one wanted to risk passing so near to Rod’Yadin. The party decided to complete the journey on foot. They would leave in the morning, as they had arrived late in the day, so Faustus took the opportunity to return to Cania to pursue further research on the Wand of Orcus.

Dell, Kai, and Tadhg aimed to find a blacksmith to purchase a longbow for Kai. Having done so, they retired for the night. In the realm of dreams, Tadhg was visited by Ravam. The angel asked them how he could go about contacting Faustus. Tadhg, uncertain whether they could trust that Ravam was the one they were speaking with, severed the connection though they promised to send him a message in the morning. As the sun rose, Tadhg contacted Ravam. He told them that he did not appreciate being forced out their dreams even if he understood the logic behind their actions. They said that sending Faustus would be possible now. Faustus, who had returned from the Nine Hells minutes beforehand, received a sending from the angel. He laid out in no uncertain terms that he was aware of what Faustus had done with the holy texts of the triumvirate and, for this transgression, Ravam would not hesitate to smite him when they next met.

Before leaving the town, Tadhg visited a jeweller to purchase diamonds to use in resurrection rituals. The woman who ran the shop was a weirdly pleasant person who had managed to amass a sizable collection of diamonds. Faustus’ witch sight revealed her to be a succubus in disguise, putting her strange manner into perspective. This information wasn’t shared until they had left the shop, however, and since the diamonds she had sold them were genuine, the party had no reason to confront her on the matter.

Two days of travel came and went without incident, until night fell. In the dead of night, the alarm set outside the temple woke Dell, who in turn woke Kai and Tadhg. The three saw no creature outside the temple, leading them to conclude that something invisible had tripped the alarm. Dell cast a spell to allow him to see into the Ethereal Plane and saw that the culprit was a night hag. She scrawled a message on the glass of the temple’s window reading “Won’t you let me in?” When none of the three obliged her, she wrote that she hoped they would meet again and then disappeared into the dark.

Across the planes, Faustus determined that the skull atop the Wand of Orcus belonged to an ancient hero and it served as a key part of its symbolism and power. In the morning, the party skirted the edge of Lake Caiaphas, coming across an abandoned fishing hut bearing the personal touches of recent living. Concerned that the hag was inhabiting the shack, Dell re-established his sight into the Ethereal Plane. A lone fisherman was the only being nearby. Using Murmur, Faustus and Tadhg stepped behind the veil and spoke with the fisherman, letting him know that they would be setting up camp for the night in the vicinity. He had no complaints and was happy to allow them to do so. The party was not troubled by unwelcome visitors in the night, either of an Ethereal or psychic nature.

The party reached the foot of the Araluen Hills within a few short hours. Between Tadhg’s instincts for tracking and the rest of the party’s investigative abilities, they were able to distinguish several sets of tracks, all heading in the same direction. As they followed the trail, the path through the hills became steeper until it dipped into the mouth of a cave. Just beyond the curve of sunlight, a horde of zombies stood perfectly still. These zombies were not of Sathael’s creation, marking them as the significantly weaker garden-variety. With the power of the Dadga, Tadhg obliterated the zombies, clearing the way into the cave. As the adventurers explored the cave system, it became apparent that it was not naturally-occurring. The dead ends of the cave’s forked tunnels led to pockets of zombies, all of which stared disinterestedly at the party as they passed. In the northeastern end of the cave, the ground begun to slope so severely that Dell, Kai, and Tadhg could slide down on their shields. Five zombie beholders had been set to the task of excavating the cave. Unlike the zombies they were hostile toward the party, though they put up little resistance.

In a wide centre portion of the cavern, piles of bodies lay untouched by the zombie plague. To prevent their use by Sathael, the party set the bodies to burn as they continued toward unexplored pockets of the cave. Several petrified beholders and an enclosure containing deer were notable sights along the way, punctuated by ever more groups of zombies. Eventually, the party stood before a sheer cliff that led up. Through various means, the party scaled the rock face and came face-to-face with a death tyrant. He addressed them in two languages that none of the party had any knowledge of and then headed off to retrieve an Undercommon-to-Elvish dictionary when the party switched to it.

Through a convoluted sequence of speaking in Undercommon to Faustus (who had cast a ritual to understand the language after a few minutes) and responding in writing in Elvish which the death tyrant translated with the dictionary, he told them that he was Eejyns, master of Araluen Hills. He was not pleased that they had traipsed through his domain and destroyed his hard-won trophies. He had no knowledge of Karaviel or Sathael, though he declared himself an enemy of the creator of the zombie plague. The party tried to leverage this fact to form a temporary alliance with Eejyns but he refused, demanding that one of the party replace his destroyed beholders. In the end, he stood no chance against the party and was killed within seconds of the start of the fight. With the master of Araluen Hills dead, the zombies held in his lair begun to wander around and notice the party. The four decided it would be simplest to leave the cave system and collapse it with an earthquake once they were clear of it, a proposal that was implemented as soon as they had reached a safe distance from the mouth of the cave.

Sathael appeared before the group as Tadhg destroyed the tunnels, thanking the party for taking care of one of her enemies for her. Before she could say much else, the party promptly ignored her in favour of speculating on the matter of Karaviel. Uncertain whether he was even real or if his existence had been entirely fabricated by Sathael, Faustus contacted Ravam. He was evidently displeased to converse with Faustus but he was not so stubborn as to ignore him and he confirmed that Karaviel was one of the missing devas. The remainder of the day was spent fruitlessly combing the hillside for any indication that Karaviel was being held there. As Kai settled down to a night of compelling reading through the dictionary, Dell tinkered, and Tadhg took a well-earned rest, Faustus returned once more to Cania to continue his research, unearthing the important fact that there was only one means to truly break the power of the wand once and for all, though the method still eluded him.

Next
[Session 14](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2014.md)