---
date: 2019-03-13
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 8

Returning from his near-death-contingency-induced crab form, Crampernap made a hasty retreat from Doro’s room, tossing his broom to Tadhg before casting a spell to take him up to Atalanta’s room on the castle’s second floor. Fortunately for the party, it became clear as they fled that the ghost was bound to the room in which they’d encountered him, so after the initial bid to put as much space between them and him as possible, they could take their time making their way aboveground. As they emerged in Atalanta’s room, Lord R, flanked by a force of guards demanded an explanation for the party’s activities. Calling upon the ring and papers found in the areas they had explored as evidence, the group was able to convince the lord of the castle that they had not killed a member of his court in cold blood.

As they outlined the features of the dungeon that lay below, they mentioned the ghost and asked Lord R if he knew of such a man. He denied it but Crampernap felt that he wasn’t being entirely truthful. Despite his increasingly poor opinion of the party’s politeness, he agreed to allow the party to resume their investigation of the dungeon in the morning. That evening, the angel Ravam interrupted Faustus’ peaceful dreams of damnation with a warning that it knew the party had come into contact with the ring. It disapproved of the lack of devotion of the ring’s master among the party’s members but did not feel the need to unleash the wrath of heaven upon them for it. Before it departed, it questioned Faustus on his interactions with devas, implying that it was searching for the culprit of a specific murder. He, for transparency’s sake, confessed to the murder of the Abbot but as they were members of heavenly hosts, Ravam was not especially interested in that act.

In the morning, Crampernap informed Tadhg of his growing unease with the life of an adventurer, pushed finally into a decision to return to his life as a cloistered scholar at the first opportunity by the most recent death of Amicus in the battle against Doro. Tadhg was supportive, though they reminded him that he wouldn’t be able to leave the island so long as Yoor’Zogoth was uncontested on the seas, to which Crampernap told them he was planning to seek lodging with a cousin who happened to be staying in Olamist until things blew over. Since they were already intending to go to in to the city to resurrect Atalanta’s other victim, Elijah, they offered to escort him there. On their way down to breakfast, Solafei intercepted the party to inform them that tensions would likely be high among the court as they came to terms with Atalanta’s death and offered to take them to the local McRestaurant instead.

As they sat down to a meal of McFood and McWater, she expressed her own complicated feelings about the revelation that Atalanta was a vampire and promised to ensure that the castle’s guards allowed them to return after their excursion was over. The party’s first stop was the guard station where Elijah’s body had been kept overnight for Tadhg to restore him to life. Once he regained consciousness, he frantically informed them that Atalanta was the vampire and was subsequently assured that she had been slain. Next, the party arrived at Timbers’ Machine Works. Within, they met a man named Dell who, upon meeting Crampernap, revealed his true intentions in offering Crampernap room and board in his home. He was hoping to find someone willing to watch over his establishment while he traveled the country in search of someone who could be entrusted with the schematics for mass-production of a new weapon he had developed. Crampernap agreed and Dell joined the party as they returned to Castle Horatio to uncover the final mysteries of Atalanta’s lair.

Without Crampernap’s broom, returning to the dungeon posed more of a problem. In general, however, between adhesive boots, tabaxi climbing capabilities, and an ill-fated shadow demon summoning, the party made their way beneath and returned to the crypt with Ebony tagging along at Lord R’s insistence. They retraced their steps to the room holding Atalanta’s coffin, with Dell, Faustus, and Kai breaking off to collect the remaining notes in the throne room. Ebony, finding Atalanta’s sword among her ashes, considered it to be indelible evidence for the rest of the court that the vampire was indeed Atalanta. She subsequently gifted the blade to Kai, as she knew Atalanta had wanted to protect the land, however ultimately twisted that desire became, and that he was doing the same. Once they had collected all they could, the party cautiously returned to Doro’s room. This time, Faustus went in alone to speak with the old ghost, managing to draw out the location of the component that he and Atalanta had obtained as part of their plan to imprison Vezira - that location being the vampire’s study. Before heading in an unknown direction, the party returned to the soundproofed door. Dell, being an accomplished lockpick, was able to bypass the lock and allow the party entrance into what lay beyond. Inside, they found a room filled with numerous strange glyphs and a bound gnome chained to the other side.

The party feared that these glyphs might be enchanted and would need to be dispelled individually to allow safe entry into the room but once Faustus determined that the runes were not directly harmful and stepped in to the room with no ill effect, the other three followed suit. Suddenly, when Tadhg entered the room, their bag of holding exploded due to being stuffed to capacity, an event that made everyone realize that they were dealing with an anti-magic field. However, conventional weapons were able to break the gnome’s chains easily enough. He introduced himself as Jimbo Timbers and explained that he was kidnapped by Atalanta while visiting the castle and imprisoned here. She appeared to have been interested in his clerical magic but Jimbo had little insight into why. Ebony cast a spell of flight on him to allow him to head up to safety as they explored the last corridor of the dungeon.

Another locked door produced a hovering mouth that requested a password but Tadhg dispelled it rather than risk baseless guessing. An iron golem inscribed with the name Iron Lad sat on the other side, activating once weapons were drawn. It wielded magic-infused gems of a design previously unseen by any of the party and demonstrated significant power before it was paralyzed by a spell and subjected to all that the party could throw at it. Once the golem had been wrecked, the party was able to pass into Atalanta’s study. Inside they found another soundproofed door holding a human named Norona whose circumstances were similar to Jimbo’s, explaining that she had been forced to create Iron Lad who eventually became an instrument of her imprisonment. She mentioned, too, that she lived in the town of Vont’Al and the party offered her safe passage there, since they were heading to the town themselves. The study itself contained various writings by Atalanta and a strongbox holding two mithral orbs of such great value that it was clear as day that they were the components she had intended to use to cast her spell of imprisonment. With no further unchecked corners of the vampire’s lair, the party returned to the city to make preparations for their journey to Vont’Al and to inform Escher that the vampiric threat to Olamist had been ended. He was glad to hear of it and invited the adventurers to stay for some valerian herb tea before they departed.

As always, the descent of night brought unearthly visitors. Sela consulted with Tadhg again on her book, mentioning in response to hearing of the cleric’s quest that Leilani had been cast into sleep by Uvean himself. She suggested that Tadhg stop persuing means to awaken the queen but promised Tadhg that she would look into the question of why and what might be done to make reparations to Uvean in her name. She also made several unsubtle and ultimately unsuccessful attempts at learning the names of the other party members before departing for the night. The following day, Tadhg told the others about Sela, prompting equal concern about her line of questioning from each of them. Faustus called Staufen back from the Nine Hells, as he had been sent back there by Doro’s divine word, and was told by the imp that he had been falling significantly behind on his soul quota and that he’d appreciate Faustus’ help in procuring a few souls on the island.

With nine days travel ahead, the party left the city in short order, spending an uneventful day and night on the road until they encountered a strange man named Leo who dropped down from a tree with no shortage of showmanship. He made a thinly-veiled threat of highway robbery, claiming that he’d fallen on hard times, backing up his words with a sizable number of flunkies and a tiefling garbed in powerful magical items who served as his muscle. The party prepared for battle but the moment the first attack was launched on their side - by Faustus against Ranakoth, Harbinger of the End - it became clear just how vastly unprepared Leo and his gang were to fight such accomplished adventurers, as a fireball incincerated Ranakoth on the spot. Leo immediately stepped down and Tadhg moved in to restore the damage that had been done and to give Leo a tidy sum of gold for him to be on his way. In the process of reviving Ranakoth, it became clear that he was simply a kid, real name Reggie, who had been pulled into this situation by Leo. Tadhg, shocked at this callousness, made it clear they would be keeping tabs on Leo to ensure he did not endanger the boy again. The two groups parted ways, though not before Staufen took the opportunity to offer the departing thieves an exchange of riches for their souls.

Next
[Session 09](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2009.md)