---
date: 2019-11-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 30

The moment the party passed over the threshold of the room, torrents of flame jetted out from the walls. The flamethrowers didn’t pose much danger to the adventurers but assuming that these iron golems had the same affinity for fire as Iron Lad, allowing the golems to get close to them would prolong the fight significantly. Before the battle began in earnest, the party was able to identify the sphere of light as the product of the spell prismatic wall. Its seven layers could only be bypassed in order under specific conditions, making it a puzzle the party wouldn’t be able to address until its defenders had been dispatched.

Inexplicably, though these golems were presumably based on the form of Iron Lad that Norona had created prior to her rescue from Olamist, they had been outfitted with wrist-mounted guns much as Iron Lad Mk V had been. The party had little time to consider the conundrum at the moment, however. With a combination of Kai’s sheer damage output and spells to prevent the golems from being repaired by the flamethrowers, they were able to take out all three of the room’s guards and turn their attention toward the wall of hard light.

One by one, the layers of light fell – red, orange, yellow – but the green layer gave them pause. Despite being able to teleport across the island as they pleased, the requirement for this layer was the creation of a portal. Fortunately, Selena had the ability to invoke the power of the gate spell and was willing to use such powerful magic to assist them. Finally, Tadhg dispelled the indigo and violet layers of the prismatic wall, removing the last of Sathael’s defenses around the book. It floated down into their grasp, allowing the party to see that it was indeed the book of nursery rhymes that Sathael had take with her when she disappeared from Fenlaur.

Dell, operating under the conclusion that this was the phylactery, hastily turned the book to ashes. The mere fact that it had been destroyed so easily made the rest of the party doubt whether it had indeed been Sathael’s phylactery, leading them to contact Uvean. The god confirmed that they had not yet encountered the phylactery and agreed to send Karaviel to provide information that wasn’t constrained by the limited yes-or-no format of the spell they had used to bridge a connection with the god.

Atop the tower, Karaviel informed them that Sathael had placed her phylactery within a personal demiplane. This posed a number of problems to the party, primarily that demiplanes were impossible to access through planar travel without exact knowledge of their contents, a tuning fork, or a miracle. These issues could be surmounted in one way or another, given enough time, but if they ceased their searching for the day, it was entirely possible that Sathael would return. The party could not afford to risk another battle with the lich and so their options were limited. After considering several different plans, the party came to an important conclusion – though Faustus did not have access to the wish spell he had found in Barovia, Selena could copy it from the tome and use it to enter the demiplane, allowing Tadhg to create a planar gate of their own and link the demiplane and the tower.

Mephistopheles obliged the party’s request for the book and Selena begun the arduous process of learning the spell. It was a time-consuming process and as the afternoon wore on into night, the four were rapidly approaching their self-imposed deadline of destroying Sathael’s phylactery before the day was up. The shroud of night had wrapped itself around Elihyel, with the brightest stars punctuating the darkness, by the time Selena declared her task complete. The exact wording of the wish was debated between the five of them, ensuring that its scope was not too large nor its parameters too vague. With a simple sentence, Selena disappeared. Contacting her revealed that she had arrived in the demiplane without incident and Tadhg was able to use her location to cast the gate spell.

The party had a mere minute to find the phylactery before the gate closed. As quickly as they could, they used magic to burn most of the contents of the demiplane, leaving only that which had been warded against destruction behind – a statue of a quasit, a plush toy of a bronze dragon, a prayer book, and an amulet. Each of the party took one of the items and left, with the gate closing behind them just as they were all clear.

Dell and Faustus divided the task of identifying the items between them, determining that the bronze dragon was Sathael’s phylactery. It seemed a strange choice, to place her soul within a simple handmade toy, until opening it revealed a small card inside that wished Sathael a happy birthday from her sister. Using the Holy Avenger he had found in the hoard of the shadow dragon, Kai rent the phylactery in two, destroying its dark magic with divine light, and thus Sathael’s name was struck from the ledgers of immortality forever.

All that remained was informing Leilani of her sister’s demise, but before Dell teleported the party back to Fenlaur, he went to speak to one of Willem’s specimens – an alhoon named Zelgrim. He hoped that Zelgrim would have insight into the ammunition cell he had found in Corome but he denied any knowledge of it. Nonetheless, Dell wanted to keep in touch with him and provided him with one of Tadhg’s pair of sending stones after releasing him from his imprisonment.

Back in Fenlaur, signs of battle were evident along the path up to the castle’s gates. Concerned, Tadhg intercepted a guard to ask what had happened. During the party’s absence, Lord R had marshalled the forces of Olamist to attempt a coup d’état. Leilani had been able to repel his invasion, but the castle was still in disarray. In the halls of the castle itself, the party spoke to an exhausted Leilani, who explained that they had been unable to capture Lord R but there had only been minor casualties (whom Tadhg promised to restore to life in the morning). Much to her surprise, the party offered to retrieve Lord R so that he could face trial for his actions. She accepted, though in light of all they had already done for Fenlaur, she insisted that if they had more pressing matters she could apprehend him herself.

At long last, the party were able to rest, each of them unconscious within minutes of laying down to sleep. Much as they had when Sathael had visited them to issue her final threat, the party found themselves gathered together in the realm of dreams. A sky flickered into being above them, a brilliant sun, shining moon, and twinkling stars all co-existing there. The three gods thanked the party for the great deeds they had done in the name of Elihyel and bestowed a token of their gratitude upon the party in thanks.

As dawn broke over the first day since the party had stopped Sathael’s apocalypse in its tracks, Faustus and Tadhg went to speak with Leilani. She was still clearly shaken by Lord R’s sudden attempt at usurpation and couldn’t even bring herself to ask whether the party had accomplished what she knew by their return they must have done. Tadhg returned the note they had found in the toy dragon to Sathael. At first, she didn’t understand its significance but once she read the short message written on it, the memories of that gift returned to her all at once and she could do nothing but weep for the sister she had lost. Tadhg did their best to comfort her and she gifted them the Ring of Okallo as thanks for all they had done.

Retrieving Lord R from Olamist was a short affair. Coming of the heels of a battle for the fate of the world itself, the party simply walked into Castle Horatio, knocked Lord R unconscious, and teleported back to Fenlaur within the hour. With that dealt with, Leilani turned to the question of who would preside over Corome and Olamist, as both city’s corrupt leaders had been ousted. After some discussion with the party, she decided that Raloth would govern Corome and Kai would take Lord R’s place in Olamist.

Finding themselves with an abundance of time for the first time in many weeks, the party spent the rest of the day in Fenlaur going over what they had found in the Spirethael. The disk they had found in Sathael’s study was some form of puzzle box with unknown contents that the party could work at unraveling over the next several days. Dell took the opportunity to contact Zelgrim to pick his brain on the matter but the person who held the other sending stone was none other than Zaphigun, who told Dell that he would not hear from Zelgrim again.

With access to the library, the party was also able to decipher the sheaves of papers that had been written in a language none of them had encountered before. Mardella was able to identify it as Qualith, the language of ilithids, and a spell to comprehend languages allowed the party to unlock the writing’s secrets. The papers were letters from Zaphigun to Sathael, ranging from technical notes on the construction of the colossus to discussions of the party. Zaphigun seemed particularly fixated on Dell, impressed by his creation of firearms and warning Sathael that his continued proliferation of the technology would have far-reaching ramifications on the world at large. He also named the location where he resided in one of these letters, a place known as Xualtacia. Although Sathael had been defeated, the possibility of Zaphigun continuing the work that had led to the creation of the colossus made him a significant threat, one that the party would soon take steps to eliminate.

Next
[Session 31](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2031.md)