---
date: 2019-07-26
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 18

As Tadhg was unable to cast their customary spells on the party, their dreams were unprotected for the evening. In the realm of sleep, Faustus found himself in the grand hall of Castle Soth, dancing with Mephistopheles. When the dance came to a close, he whispered in Faustus’ ear - calling him “Jocko” and tipping him off to the fact that he had a visitor in his dreams in the form of Sathael. She commented on the party’s meeting with Vezira, offering her sympathies for the situation it put them in. The dragon, she said, would do far worse to us than Sathael herself would and she was loath to see us fall into her hands. After the usual bandying back and forth between them, Sathael left the dream as dawn broke. Vezira’s eyes were on the three adventurers as they woke, making it clear she had been watching them all night. Tadhg was still in the process of hallowing the ground around Vezira’s hoard and so the party still had time to kill.

Faustus took the opportunity to attempt to contact the spirit of the ancient hero whose skull had been used to forge the Wand of Orcus. The connection was strained but he was able to ask a single question. He asked for their name and they provided the name Astralla. Once early morning rituals were taken care of, the party solicited ideas for how to spend their day from Vezira. She suggested they go on a walk. Faustus and Kai elected to do so, leaving Dell in the clearing to watch over Tadhg. To the west of the dragon’s lair, they found several strange bales of grass which revealed themselves to be shambling mounds. The two managed to immolate them without much difficultly, deciding to move their walk to greener pastures in the woods.

After some time, they passed by a pond where a voice on the wind whispered a riddle to Kai that had no immediate solution or use. Beyond the pond, a pair of humans were sitting, engrossed in a game of Dragonchess. Their true forms were that of an arcanaloth and a rakshasa, who made it clear that they had been without any opponents other than each other for many, many games. Faustus offered to play, but the two each refused to play if the other was asked to be his opponent first. Kai, recalling the cryptic words on the wind, suggested that they play a three-person game. Each player laid down a bet, where the winner would take them all. Just as the voice had hinted, the two old foes were far more intent on taking the other out of the running, allowing Faustus to play them against each other and emerge the victor. Satisfied at finally playing a game with a fresh outcome, the two fiends vanished. Few corners of Vezira’s domain remained unexplored, so the two returned to the clearing to while away the hours with the rest of the group.

As evening came, Tadhg completed their spell. Although they were free to leave, the party elected to stay an additional night in Vezira’s lair, as a sign of trust in her hospitality. Tadhg was content to sleep right where they stood, though they were sure to protect the party against unwanted dreams before they did so. It was Tadhg themself, however, who was contacted that night by Karaviel. As he had said he would, the angel had inquired about Ravam’s behaviour and provided an explanation to Tadhg. He explained to them what Faustus had done with the Tomes to earn Ravam’s wrath. Tadhg argued that he should be given leniency as a first offender but Karaviel told them that Ravam would not be deterred.

The party’s second morning in the forest of Kiro was far from being as peaceful as their first. Vezira was on edge, listening intently for something the party could not hear. Wind howled through the trees and a sickly green fog snaked its way across their roots, heralding the arrival of Sathael. No grand speeches were exchanged by either side, they simply attacked with the grim determination to kill the other. Sathael called down another meteor storm from the heavens, but the party was prepared for this particular tactic and all four managed to survive the onslaught. The fight begun in earnest, then. Between the addition of Vezira to their forces and Kai unleashing a flurry of attacks on Sathael, she was slain by the adventurers, leaving behind nothing but the Wand of Orcus.

The party knew this would not be a lasting victory against Sathael but it was nonetheless a temporary one; at last, the need to scrape together fragments of lost knowledge about the wand was gone. The party identified its properties and decided that the best course of action was to keep it in their possession until they could destroy it. However, ever driven by greed, Vezira insisted that she had rightful claim to it, as the lich had been killed on her territory. In order to avoid another fight, the party teleported across the island to the city of Fenlaur. As was customary, the party made their way to the castle to speak with Raloth and seek his hospitality. In the process, they updated him on the state of the search to find the means to awaken Leilani. Ramael, to whom Kai was an old friend, caught wind of their exploits and insisted that Kai go to a tavern and find a bard to sing tales of their victory over Sathael. Raloth and Tadhg decided to join them in doing so, while Faustus went to speak with Leilani about possible vessels for Sathael’s phylactery and Dell outfitted the party’s gear for their return to Vezira’s lair the next morning.

At the tavern (notably run by Willy of Willy’s Magical Trinkets, of all people) Kai and Ramael had the time to catch each other up on the events of their time apart. They were successful, as well, in impressing a bard with the tale of Sathael’s death. Raloth, though enjoying himself, was clearly still feeling the weight of his position of Prince Regent keenly. His three companions did what they could to cheer him up, though the subject of family remained in conversation as Ramael mentioned his father, Tamaj’s, disappearance around the time of the plague’s beginning. The atmosphere of worry was broken when Oriah came into the bar, lamenting the apocalypse that had been brought down by Uvean. Tadhg, very frankly, told her that the plague wasn’t Uvean’s work but Sathael’s. Oriah was shocked by their certainty and casual talk of speaking with angels though clearly relieved. As the four left the tavern for the evening, they caught sight of Oriah changing her sign to say that, while the world was still ending, it was not in fact a result of their sinful ways.

Meanwhile in the palace, Faustus and Leilani were becoming acquainted, something that was expedited by the fact that Crampernap had been reading her Escher’s famed novel. In keeping with her refusal to accept that Sathael had willingly become the mastermind of the plague, he told her that they suspected the Wand of Orcus had been influencing her and were hoping for her help in freeing her from that influence. He asked if there were any items of sentimental value that had disappeared when Sathael had. Leilani could not recall any, though she agreed to tell Crampernap or Raloth if anything came to mind later.

Once their rest was completed, the four returned to the heart of Vezira’s forest. Hostilities broke out immediately, as both sides knew that the time for negotiation had long passed. Kai attempted to use the rune he had obtained from Selena but it did not take hold in time to prevent the dragon from killing Tadhg. Fortunately, in order to avoid Kai’s deadly blade, Vezira kept her distance from the ground, allowing Dell to make his way to Tadhg’s body and revive them long before the plague could infect them. Vezira’s caution drew out the fight until the rune worked its magic, preventing the dragon from using hers. In the end, the party triumphed over the ancient scourge of Elihyel and slew her for true, freeing the island of yet another long-standing danger.

Next
[Session 19](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2019.md)