---
date: 2019-09-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 22

The party ventured only a few paces beyond the mouth of the cave when Tadhg received a summons from the Dagda. They were loath to leave their companions to face the dangers of Tamaj’s lair without them but their highest allegiance was to their god. Thus, the three remaining party members entered the lair proper. The initial sights consisted of areas it was clear Tamaj had installed personally – a map of the island and a nest, but soon enough the presence of intruders became clear. Stray zombies meandered in and out of the central “room” of the lair. The zombies were not aggressive outright, though they slowly shambled toward the party. Rather than be menaced, the three attacked and cleared out the zombies, noticing as they did so that the song of the Portal-type zombies had become more primal than the one they remembered.

Undeterred, the adventurers pressed on. Shortly after, in the southern edge of the cave, their path was blocked by what could have been mistaken for a rockslide if not for the location. Dell was able to shrink the rubble and allow them to see what lay beyond. Two individuals – one living and one dead – had holed up in this space to avoid the zombies. Their attire marked them as members of Chy’Kira Steel-Hammer’s plague hunters, explaining their presence in the cave at all. Now that the way out was safe, the party sent the two to find Tadhg, who would likely be able to restore the fallen hunter to life once they were finished communing with their god.

Passing by a room where hundreds of bats nested among the stalactites, the party encountered a group of Prondaelan zealots. These zealots had intended to ambush the party with under the effects of an invisibility spell but unfortunately for them, their plan was foiled by the fact that such illusion magic could be seen through by witch sight. As such, the party was able to defeat them in short order. Beyond where the zealots had lain in wait, the stone of the cave inclined steeply, giving way to old, rotting wood. Three mummified creatures stood motionless there and issued another warning to the adventurers not to go any further. When Dell pointed out that they had been sent specifically to remove these intruders from the seaside cave, the mummies insisted that Tamaj was the intruder and that this place had belonged to them long before he had claimed it.

The party was not swayed, however, and slew the guards to the lower levels of the lair. The wooden architecture remained as they went deeper and the remnants of rooms from long ago made up the majority of the ruins beneath. The first chamber of these lower levels was an embalming room. Dell immediately claimed the various tools that had been left here, a choice that paid off in an unconventional way when the next hallway turned out to be filled with blades that swung back and forth from the ceiling to prevent unwanted visitors like the party. Dell painstakingly jammed each of the mechanisms with a different tool, allowing the rest of the party to pass without issue.

In this room, after a slew of arrows flew toward Kai from its other end, a single sarcophagus proclaimed that an empress of the old empire of Elihyel had been entombed here. A forlorn skeleton lay in the corner, presumably a victim of the arrow trap that had not been so quick to react. When the sarcophagus was opened by Kai, it became clear that the skeleton likely belonged to the empress herself, as Valeria was found lying inside. Kai, on instinct, decked her, which set off a very terse conversation. As before, Dell and Kai were not impressed with the fact that a wizard of her power had been hiding and waiting for someone to come along to do the actual work of clearing out the tombs so that she could take the spoils. Still, Faustus intended to get the first Tome of History from her, so she was allowed to tag along regardless.

Another trap was sprung as they headed through another corridor, namely a large boulder that begun to roll toward the group. Again, Dell was able to render it harmless, though he used another shrinking spell this time as opposed to disabling the mechanism as before. A congregation of mummies and Prondaelan zealots attended a dracolich and a mummy lord in this chamber. Tamaj’s egg could also be seen in their clutches. At the party’s appearance, the zealots made their charge, inciting the battle. The adventurers were beset with frost, darkness, and banishment to hamper their efforts, but they emerged victorious in the end. The task of finding the heart of the mummy lord now fell to the three, though not before the egg hatched and they had to contend with a baby dragon as well.

Exhausted from their trek through the tombs, the party elected to rest for a while and discuss their next step. Tamaj was informed of his child’s safety and the dragon was on his way, but he wouldn’t arrive for a few days. Nonetheless, the mummy might reform around its heart in the span of a day so they could not take their time with the search. As they rested, the party reanimated the head of the illithid they had encountered in Corome to seek answers from it. The illithid revealed that his people’s concerns with the kraken and its cult came from their growing influence in the Underdark and Dell learned that the cylinder he had taken from his body was ammunition of some kind.

Once the interrogation had concluded, the party continued on. The next room they entered was filled with spinning blades and occupied by a chain devil. Both sides prepared to fight until it became clear that the devil recognized Faustus. He was disinclined to earn the ire of the courts of Cania by killing him and, in fact, was aware of a message for him. A swarm of messenger imps appeared at the devil’s behest and delivered a message from Mephistopheles. Sathael had become a great enough threat that he had reconsidered the necessity of capturing her alive. Though he hoped Faustus might still be able to collect her knowledge, her life was no longer required.

As the devils returned to the Nine Hells, the three came to a room filled with sarcophagi. Keen to discover whether the heart they sought was interred here, the party begun to open the sarcophagi. One contained a fine set of abyssal armour and another a very animate corpse, but before long they opened a sarcophagus that released a poisonous gas. Dell and Kai decided, wisely, to leave but Faustus wanted to open one final sarcophagus – the one that had pinged divination magic when the party cast a spell to detect magic nearby.

Entombed within was a mummy that served as an oracle. It allowed five questions to be asked. The first answer it gave, in response to the question of where the heart could be found, claimed that none may touch the emperor’s heart. It knew things beyond the limits of the tomb, however, and its second answer revealed that Okallo’s ring, which Mardella had asked them to find, was held by three kings. It could not answer what Yoor’Zogoth’s obscure intentions were, nor give an objective answer to what lay at the bottom of Lake Caiaphas. At this point, both Dell and Kai had become impatient enough with the fact that Faustus insisted on waiting for cryptic answers to his questions in a room that was actively hazardous that they re-entered the room to retrieve him. Naturally, they figured the quickest way to do so was to simply knock him out. Given that he was near unconscious already, this was easily done. As they dragged him out of the room, the mummy intoned its final answer – repeating Yoor’Zogoth’s mysterious statement that the colossus that slept beneath the waters of Lake Caiaphas was to be Sathael’s masterpiece.

Next
[Session 23](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2023.md)