---
date: 2019-05-02
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 14

With no hint of the deva’s whereabouts, the party made Argalin Tower their destination, recalling that the death knight Nahlir had made his lair in Lunova Tower to the northwest and betting on the fact that Velkas had done the same. Since the town of Araluen was along the most direct path to the tower, they decided to stop there to pick up a wagon and expedite the latter half of their journey. As they journeyed across the wilderness, with Kai guiding the party, Tadhg requested the Dagda’s intervention on their behalf. They asked the god to speak with Uvean and ask him exercise oversight over Ravam. No direct response was given but the whistling song of a bird that Tadhg took for his agreement.

After a full day of travel, Tadhg set up the temple for the night and sat down to commune with their god. He told them that Uvean was amicable to discussion and did not wish Tadhg any harm. Their final question was used to ask how the Dagda was faring. Touched by their thoughtfulness, he blessed them for the duration of the next day. As was often the case for the nights following the party’s recovery of the Tome of Uvean, the night passed quietly and the group made the rest of the trek to Araluen. By mid-afternoon, the town of Araluen came into view. It was a humble place battered by its proximity to Rod’Yadin but it was fortified by a wall sufficient to offer some protection for the people there. A poster advertising a zoo was plastered across the gates as they approached, sparking excitement in Tadhg who convinced the rest of the party to join them.

A short man in a top hat introduced himself to the party in a bombastic manner as Majesto, acting as the zoo’s ringmaster. Once the party had paid the price of admission, he traded his top hat for a pith hat and conducted a tour of the zoo’s animals - notably including several varieties of dinosaur. At the end of the tour, he challenged the tour group with surmounting the T-Rex Challenge, which involved managing to stay atop the creature for thirty seconds. Tadhg was eager to try and was able to successfully stay on the t-rex’s back, earning a prize of a tiny golden hat worth 100 gold. With no further sights to see at the zoo, the party went to purchase a wagon. To repay Tadhg’s generosity in paying full price for the discounted vehicle, the shopkeeper told them that they would be better off heading to the east, as both Corome and the tower were home to many dangers. but they assured her they were well-equipped for the challenge.

The remainder of the journey to Argalin Tower would take a little over a day with the wagon so the party opted to continue along the road rather than rest in Araluen. As late afternoon drifted to evening, Tadhg received a sending from Ravam. He begrudgingly apologized for including Dell, Kai, and Tadhg in his righteous fury, though he notably did not rescind his declaration that Faustus would face justice. Once the temple had been established for the night, Faustus left for the libraries of Cania. This would turn out to be detrimental when, under cover of night, Velkas dispelled the temple and attacked the party. As quickly as they could, Tadhg sent a message to Faustus to return to the Material Plane. He had only managed to uncover some tangential information about the Wand of Orcus - that by virtue of the wand being the corruption of life given physical form, its mere presence can cause things to rot - by the time of the attack and he would make no more progress that night, as he asked his patron to return him to Elihyel, with his apologies for interrupting their time together.

Meanwhile, the tides of battle were turning against the party. Velkas and his escort of zombies had managed to paralyze Dell and the death knight’s zombies had covered him and Tadhg in a strange, acrid substance. However, the party was still fighting back, with Tadhg healing the party’s injuries and Kai thinning the numbers of the Captains who had materialized at Velkas’ command. When Faustus returned, he banished Velkas to Hell, returning Dell to the fight and allowing the party to rally and slay Velkas. Like Nahlir before him, he turned to ash as he died, hoping he could be forgiven. Among the ash lay the unused spell scrolls Sathael had given him and a locket, containing a portrait of Velkas, Nahlir, and a third knight together in times gone by. To replace the temple, Dell conjured a short tower and secured it against magic, allowing the party to complete their night’s rest despite the disruption.

Next
[Session 15](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2015.md)