---
date: 2019-11-12
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 28

Like Hook Port before it, the faint bustle of residents was absent from Rentatay’s streets. Despite its proximity to Sathael’s lair, it had not been reduced to a ruin, and its perfectly intact tableau of a town made it an eerie sight. The town’s main road led up to the foothills of the Shiyama Mountains, where the lair of the necromancer lay, but a solitary figure blocked the path. The blond man addressed the party with distain, declaring that they had been troublesome to his lord. Kai, in typical fashion, attacked once it was clear he was an enemy, forcing him to reveal his true form – a molydeus. He commanded unseen reinforcements to aid him as he moved in to engage Kai.

Dell used the tried-and-true method of casting haste on Kai but found to both their dismays that the molydeus was able to negate the effect, essentially taking Kai out of the fight until he could recover. In the meantime, a balor and several waves of armanites and barlguras approached the party invisibly, only revealed to the party when they came close enough for Faustus’ witchsight to see through the illusion. Hoping to buy them time, Dell created a wall of force, protecting them from the lesser demons. The balor was able to teleport within the dome to attack the party but doing so left it open to retaliation from Kai, who prepared to slay the balor. Knowing from their previous encounters with the balor that remaining inside when it burst into flame would be detrimental, Dell dispelled the wall, taking out some of the other demons when the balor died.

The process was slow-going, but the party eventually was able to vanquish all the demons, leaving them alone in the empty town. Although it was still morning, the party knew better than to mount an attack on the tower at anything less than their full strength. They whiled away the hours until nightfall and rested in Tadhg’s temple until the following morning. Once they were all prepared, Dell teleported the party to the pinnacle of the tower, though the process was not very smooth, battering them significantly before they arrived on-target.

Sathael had been awaiting their arrival, greeting them as they appeared. The extent of her preparation for this moment was made clear when she took to the skies, where storm clouds had already begun to gather, and read the words of a spell aloud. In the next instant, when time resumed, she had summoned a dragon and pulled the very stars from the sky to assail them, just as she had when they had first met in Rod’Yadin. The party had made preparations of their own, ensuring that all four of them survived the onslaught, though only just. Once her opening play was over, Sathael snapped her fingers, activating the many circles of magical runes that had been carved into the roof beneath the party. A ring of flames encircled the tower and zombies sprung forth from summoning circles at the back edge of the tower.

Not only was the party on the back foot, Sathael’s flight made using Kai as their lynchpin difficult. Dell bestowed flight on him but with the damage inflicted by the falling meteors, Sathael needed only to speak a word from the Wand of Orcus to kill Kai. Between keeping them all alive and avoiding the defenses of the tower itself, the party was unable to lay a finger on the lich. By the time she had stunned all but Dell, it became clear to him that they were not in a position to win this fight. Using his Helm of Teleportation, Dell could remove them from danger, allowing them to reassess their options and return better-armed, but the way they had spread out across the expanse of the tower meant that he could only get three of them out of harm’s way. Having only moments to decide and knowing that leaving Tadhg behind would mean they would not be recoverable through resurrection, he left Faustus behind, hoping that he would be able to resist Sathael’s magic and follow them out. With the final charge of his Helm, he spirited the three adventurers away to Oak’Shira, where Norona’s workshop was located. Though the odds were better for Faustus than would have been for Tadhg, he was not so fortunate. Descending from her perch in the sky, Sathael uttered another word from the Wand and killed the warlock.

In Oak’Shira, Norona asked a shell-shocked party what had happened. Dell explained as Tadhg begun counting up their many diamonds to use in the most powerful ritual of resurrection at their disposal. Despite their crushing defeat, the party was, if anything, more determined to redouble their efforts against Sathael and return to the tower as soon as they collated every advantage they could think of against the Architect of Dreams.

Dell set about creating various magical items, enlisting Iron Lad from Norona, and making purchases of components Tadhg could use to strength them before the battle. Tadhg, with a king’s ransom in diamonds, spoke Faustus’ name and pulled his soul from the aether into a new body. Their remaining preparations took a total of three days to complete and the party was conscious the whole time that those three days had been afforded to Sathael in turn, allowing her to set up untold new defenses unhindered by the need to sleep that the party had to bow to.

Nonetheless, Dell teleported them back to the tower – but they did not appear at its apex as they had four days before. They stood in what seemed to be an empty stretch of the mountains, though Dell was certain that they had arrived at the location of the tower. Tadhg used their crystal ball to scry on the tower and, with its unerring sight, saw that the tower was indeed still there, though invisible and clearly warded to prevent them from accessing the roof with teleportation magic. Knowing very well that traversing Sathael’s lair before battling her would spell their deaths, as she had nearly killed them when they had bypassed it the first time, Tadhg had little choice but to call upon their link to the Dagda. They appealed to him to bring the party to Sathael’s location and, with a flash of divine magic, the party found themselves atop the tower, face-to-face with Sathael once more…

Next
[Session 29](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2029.md)