---
date: 2019-09-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/iosg
---
# Session 23

Soon after, Tadhg joined the rest of the party outside the burial chamber. After being appraised of the situation (and chewing out their fellow adventurers), the four approached the only locked door they had seen in the ruins below the lair. Dell picked the lock with ease and opened the door onto a considerable hoard of riches. Assuming that it belonged to Tamaj, the party was content to leave it undisturbed. However, as they passed by the heaps of gold, a golem composed of gold and jewels sprung forth and attacked. Its ability to shrug off any fire damage sent its way posed a unique challenge to a party who tended to use it, but they were able to fight it off with minimal damage to Tamaj’s treasures.

North of the treasury was a door magically warded with a spell the party was becoming quite familiar with. Just as they had when they last encountered the spell, Tadhg attempted to dispel it and ended up activating the magic. Unlike that last time, the group was able to shake off any ill effects, leaving the final chamber of the tunnels open to inspection. The room was barren except for a single urn on a pedestal. Approaching the urn caused a lantern to descend from above, emitting a sickly light that sapped the strength of those nearby. It did not shine for very long, as Tadhg shattered it with a well-placed hit. Within the urn sat a shriveled heart that the party reduced to ash in mere moments. Their knowledge of accounts of mummies made them uncertain whether this heart was indeed the one they’d sought, as it didn’t seem to be magical in any way.

After close inspection of the pedestal, Dell found that a false tile had been installed to mask a secret compartment. Another, smaller urn had been stashed inside it, one that contained a still-beating heart. Convinced at last, Tadhg and Dell set about destroying it, causing the dying shrieks of the mummy lord’s soul to echo about the room as it was untethered from the Material Plane.

Now that Tamaj’s lair was once again safe, the party had simply to wait for his arrival. Even at the speed of dragonflight, the bronze dragon would not reach the southern tip of the island for three days. Valeria, who had her sights set on the final Tome of History that had been entrusted to the paladins Sathael had subverted, was anxious to travel to Wendalin Tower, but she was convinced to wait by the knowledge that she could not face its dangers alone. The party spent the three days of downtime on their own personal projects, as well as keeping Valeria from liberating magic items from Tamaj’s horde. After a few days of study, Dell was able to determine that the ammunition he had taken from the illithid used raw energy as a projectile, though he had no context for a weapon that could fire such a bolt. Tadhg, too, was able to make headway on their own project of resurrecting the hero Astralla. The Dagda informed their cleric that even he could not restore Astralla to life. The only means to destroy the Wand of Orcus was to travel to the dread realm of Thanatos and wrest the soul of the hero from Orcus’ clutches.

Tamaj appeared around midday on the day of his projected arrival, meeting the party and Valeria outside his lair. He was surprised to see that the egg had hatched while he had been away and, after thanking the party, spent his time bonding with his newborn child. Now that he could trust that the wyrmling would be safe, he agreed to help the four when the time came for their battle with Yoor’Zogoth. Rather than return to Corome to commence that inevitable fight, the party was keen to travel to Wendalin, as both the threat of Brin and the promise of the Ring of Okallo were loose ends they sought to tie up.

The following morning, the party teleported to the third tower. They appeared atop a gently rolling hill, covered in green grass – and surrounded by hill giants who had been turned into undead by Sathael’s magic. Unbeknownst to all except Faustus, the balor who they had last faced in Ravam’s company was also awaiting their arrival, concealed by magic that rendered it invisible. Although the door to the tower stood just behind where they had appeared, they stood no chance of making it inside without defeating the balor and the zombies so they took up their arms and attacked.

Valeria had discovered the weakness to the sleep spell that the party had found during their last foray into one of the towers and used it to pick off the zombies while the party focused on the balor. They had no divine intervention to assist them against the demon this time but they had become much stronger than when they had last fought. As such, the party returned the fiend to the Abyss while managing to ration their strength for the trials ahead in the tower.

The tower’s interior was much like its counterparts in Lunova and Argalin. A war room of sorts provided some insight on Sathael’s progress in wearing down the settlements of Wendalin. Only Peregrine Mill had mustered any real resistance against her forces, the other towns had become much like Hook Port to the north. An adjacent room held a music box that, when wound up, produced a different song that the soothing lullaby they had heard in Argalin Tower. In fact, by contrast, it inspired a frenzy in those who heard it, as Tadhg could attest to firsthand. They destroyed the box and continued on to a room with two doors, one red and one blue. A twin-headed snake guarded the doors and attempted to lead the party to choose one of the doors to proceed. Rather than risk making the wrong choice, Tadhg simply created a passage in the stone walls of the tower to the other side, allowing them to venture upstairs without any trouble.

Before ascending to the upper levels, the party decided to go to the basement to deal with the sibriex they could only assume had been housed there. Just beyond the end of the stairwell, a gnome was being held prisoner. The party set about freeing him as he introduced himself. He told them that he was Dimble Timbers, a statement that was thrown into question when Dell consulted the family registry to find that Dimble Timbers had supposedly died some time ago. He explained that after his disappearance he had been assumed dead and had been imprisoned in the tower since then. The party offered to escort him out of the tower but he instead decided to join them for the time being.

The group didn’t have to go very far to find the chamber where the sibriex languished. Strewn across the floor were the appendages of all manner of creatures and three flesh golems served as guards for the demon. The party didn’t allow the sibriex to get a word in edgewise, initiating combat as soon as they’d taken stock of the situation. Over the course of the battle, Dimble attempted to impede the party’s efforts, making it clear that he was an enemy posing as a helpless victim. Valeria took advantage of the chaos provided by the fight to slip away with the intention of finding the Tome of History in the depths of the tower. Tadhg, noticing her disappearance, took it upon themselves to beat her to finding it, taking the riskier but more direct route past the sibriex to the door on the other side of the room. Despite being afflicted with feeblemind and having their flesh warped by the sibriex, they were able to collect the book, much to Valeria’s distain.

After the dust had settled, the party used the power of the Wand of Orcus to interrogate Dimble. He revealed that he had been planted in the tower in order to take the party by surprise and kill them in exchange for the promise of perfect immortality from Sathael. Unfortunately for the party, he knew little of Sathael’s plans that the four themselves had not discovered. His spirit soon slipped away from the spell binding it without offering new insights, though the mention of this pact for immortality raised the question of whether Sathael truly had the ability to bestow such a thing or if it was simply an empty promise to secure a pawn in her schemes.

Next
[Session 24](Recaps/Isle%20of%20Sleepless%20Graves/Session%2024.md)