---
date: 2020-04-21
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 30

Awaiting the rest of the party at the door was Jasper, who had spent the past two months in the city acting as a bodyguard for Eris during the tumultuous days she had been at court. The party was glad to see him and took the opportunity to fill him in on what they had accomplished while away from Ludenwick. In turn, he informed them that Eris no longer required his presence in the palace, allowing him to return to the party.

Once Jasper had been brought up to speed on the matter of the impending theft, the five adventurers discussed the list of suspects. After some debate, they settled on Jessica Lovelle as their next subject of interrogation, giving that Victor was a cousin of her husband. As was traditional amongst the nobles of the court, Victor sent a calling card to Brandon Lovelle with an invitation to lunch two days hence. Shortly after he returned from fetching one of the palace staff, the party was themselves invited to take tea with Lady Athalos.

The tea room was in the south wing of the palace, boasting a wonderful view down into the courtyard. Lady Athalos awaited the party with a smile, informing them that her troublesome well had been quiet since they had gone to investigate it. She inquired as to where their business had taken them lately, receiving a very similar explanation of their exploits to the one they had given Jasper, though with the noted exclusion of the conspiracy. Toward the end of the conversation, Lady Athalos extended another invitation, this time to the opera written to celebrate the queen’s birthday that was set to premiere that evening.

Several members of the court would be in attendance, including Lady Summerstep - a prolific theatre critic. In return for the favour of securing them seats at such short notice, Flora offered to assist Lady Athalos once again. She admitted that she had heard that Lady Perry Pages had recently come into possession of a love letter from Lady Tara Amber. As someone who had been nudging the two of them into each other’s presence for ages, she hoped Flora could confirm whether or not the rumour was true.

While Victor went to the tailor’s to have appropriate attire commissioned, Flora took the opportunity to scry on two of their suspects. Lady Summerstep was doing nothing more exciting than answer correspondence and Lord Greyhelm was inspecting one of his factories. Even with the mind reading powers of the crystal ball, neither were thinking anything particularly nefarious, though it was helpful to have an idea of their appearances prior to the opera.

The royal theatre was a multi-level building with seating for nearly a thousand people. Rather than tickets for each seat, one’s rank in the court was the primary criteria for how good one’s seating for a performance would be. The party was seated around a number of untitled nobles and one visiting noble from the Surface whom Jasper recognized as Gin. They were rather shifty though not so much so that Jasper objected to the seating. The opera itself was decent, depicting the triumph and ultimate downfall in the second half of one of the queen’s ancestors.

During the intermission, the party attempted to scout out those on their suspect list for whom they had not yet put a face to the name. Due to their resemblance to Eris, Brandon and Jessica Lovelle and Count Eaton were both immediately recognizable. Victor took to opportunity to speak with them with all the brevity allowed of a ten minute intermission. Jessica Lovelle was aloof but the Count was interested by his statement that he was a friend of Eris if nothing else. After a rather stilted conversation, they returned to the theatre proper, with Brandon’s assurances that he was looking forward to their meeting in a few days.

Once the opera was concluded, Lady Athalos ushered the party to the afterparty, where they would have a greater opportunity to attempt to socialize with their suspects. Flora, having promised to get certain information for Lady Athalos, sought out Lady Pages. The two hit it off almost immediately and eventually Flora was able to get her to admit that she and Lady Amber had indeed begun courting recently. They had agreed to kept the matter private, however, due to Lady Amber’s many adoring and potentially jealous admirers.

Moreen quickly found a circle of gossipers who were more than happy to share the latest rumours with someone who had not yet been privy to it. She learned that Lord Greyhelm had been seen associating with Lady Marin frequently, which was notable not only for the potential scandal involved but given that Lady Marin knew *everyone* and a fair share of their secrets too, suggested he might have plans of some sort.

The remaining three members of the party went to speak with Lady Summerstep. However, before they arrived, Oadicius and Victor cast some spells that went fortunately unnoticed on the ballroom floor. Victor, who had cast a spell to detect thoughts, learned that Lady Summerstep’s mind had been shielded against psychic eavesdropping, though her husband’s had not. More direly, Oadicius, who had cast a spell that would allow him to understand conversation in any language, overheard a pair of ladies planning to get Lady Marin alone for a more private conversation. With Victor’s blessing, both Jasper and Oadicius split off to investigate the matter.

Victor, with sufficient flattery, convinced Lady Summerstep to speak with him under the pretense of wanting a preview of her thoughts before she published her review. She was hardly impressed, feeling that the work of the composer - Lord Frederick Assylstine - had only worsened since he lost the position of court artist to Lord Ani, not that it had ever been able to hold a candle to Lord Ani’s compositions. As a patriot, she considered the opera to be an inauspicious beginning to the celebrations of the queen’s birthday. Her husband seemed amused by this clear lie, as she had never been a proponent of the queen’s, but given that he had little else on his mind other than that amusement in relation to his wife’s feelings on the queen, it was obvious that either any conspiratorial plans she had did not include him or Lady Summerstep was not involved in it.

When the two ladies left with Lady Marin through a side door that led to the gardens, Oadicius and Jasper attempted to follow. Unfortunately, Jasper ended up stepping on the foot of one of the ladies in attendance, earning him the ire of her friend, but in the ensuing debacle, Oadicius was able to slip away. This section of the garden had been sculpted with high hedge walls that allowed Oadicius to stay out of sight while remaining in earshot. The Ladies Cain and Abel asked Lady Marin if she had any information about one of Lord Greyhelm’s upcoming warehouse purchases that they might be able to use to their advantage. She arranged to have it delivered to them the following morning.

With their business concluded, Lady Cain and Lady Abel returned to the dancefloor. Jasper, who had only just been able to extricate himself from his predicament, followed the ladies as they headed out of the wing that hosted the party. Meanwhile, Oadicius waited until Lady Marin had returned inside to approach her for some information of his own. She told him that Ladies Cain and Abel often sabotaged Lord Greyhelm’s business ventures, to the point that it was a matter of open speculation among gossipers each month. Oadicius hinted obliquely that he might have some information of interest to her as well, leading the two of them back into the garden once more.

Outside the ballroom, Jasper had managed to tail the ladies to a room, where they discussed their plans. With this newest sabotage, they hoped to make it clear to Lord Greyhelm that he ought not to cross them again. Their conversation was brief, however, as they had business at the docks that night. Jasper was able to hide as they left the room, preventing him from being discovered. Peculiarly, one of the ladies had disguised (or undisguised) herself as an elf prior to leaving the room, having appeared human beforehand.

In the gardens, Oadicius gave Lady Marin the broad strokes of the upcoming theft the party had uncovered and asked if she had any idea who might attempt such a thing. She emphasized that he should speak to the queen if he had such suspicions before naming the Malkovas, a courtier named Kaila Parinet, and the prolific thief Ezra the Fleet as having stolen from the palace before, though never from the queen’s treasury. Jasper, with Victor’s assistance, gathered the rest of the group together and explained that Ladies Cain and Abel were heading to the docks. Hoping that following them might lead to information pertaining to the theft, the party left the ballroom for the Grey Docks, uncertain what might await them there.

Next
[Session 31](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2031.md)