---
date: 2019-01-06
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 11

Wasting no time in light of the circumstances, the party paused in Landfeld only to sent word of their impending return to the Underdark to Rachel by way of Paracelsus, who could travel much more quickly through the passage as he wouldn’t require rest. A scant hour later, they faced the Grey Passage once more. Unlike the last time they had passed through, there were only convoys leaving the Underdark and a significant military presence had built up over the past month. One of these soldiers approached the party as they neared the entrance, informing them that, as an increased safety measure, most of the branches of the passage aside from those to Lanfeld and Azehard had been blockaded and that two members of the regiment would be accompanying them through to the Grey Landing, namely Arabella Sharpsword and Kavlok Maluthea. With no reason to linger, the group descended into the dark.

Their first three days were spent in an almost eerie peace, the lack of travelers passing by or monsters besetting them clearly noticable to those who had made the journey before. On their fourth day of travel, the convoy made a brief stop when Kavlok noticed that one of the passage’s branches had been left unguarded. He headed off to scout out the situation and quickly yelled back to Arabella and the party for backup, as it turned out the squad had left their posts to fend off a fomorian and its pet hook horror. Although Moreen ended up quite a beating from its psychic abilities and greatclub on the front line of the battle, her presence in the line of fire prevented any of the soldiers from coming to harm during the slaying of the creature. The soldiers thanked the party for their help and returned to guarding the way and, likewise, the group continued on.

Two days later, as the party were nearing the end of their break for lunch, Kavlok approached Moreen and remarked on her admirable skills and fortitude in the prior fight as a prelude to offering her a stone inscribed with the giant rune for war, which would confer her some magical advantages in battle. She accepted gratefully and soon after the party broke camp to start on the afternoon’s travel. The remaning three days of the journey were equally devoid of obstacles and even included meetings with some friendly faces such as Oscar Milne who advised the party to turn around while they still could and promised to keep an eye out for Jasper, as well as Ian Fletcher, who was glad to see Rei was no longer dead.

By late evening on the ninth day, the party reached the now semi-abandoned Grey Landing, parted ways with Arabella and Kavlok, and rendezvoused with Maven. She begun to fill the party in on what had happened in the past month, starting with the news that the Errant Seeker had been destroyed and Rachel now captained the Black Waltz - a retrofitted cruise ship - on which they would be sailing back to Ludenwick. Eris was waiting for them aboard the ship to receive them and would catch them up more fully once they had gotten underway. On the deck of the Waltz, Rachel elaborated on the circumstances of the loss of the Errant Seeker. They had been assissting in evacuation efforts when the Eaton’s own vessel rose from the seas. The Seeker was no match for the ghost ship and Borlow, Hanging Vine, and Rowan were killed in the attack, hence the presence of three new crew members on deck: a cleric named Oberon, Gem the ranger, and Jonah, more often known as Legs. She suggested that the party take some time to become familiar with the Black Waltz’s layout before joining her and Eris on the bow of the ship.

After arranging their affairs, the four headed abovedeck to speak with Eris, who broke away from the research she was embroiled in to welcome Flora and Victor back and introduce herself to the three new members of the party. She briefed the group on the extent of Eaton’s takeover of the eastern Underdark and told them that she was currently following rumours of an ancient paladin whose holy weapon had the ability to permanently destroy undead, hoping that it would give them a foothold in pushing back against Eaton’s boneclaw-led armies. Eris intended to consult the library of one of Aleire’s universities for more information on the legend and the boneclaws themselves once they returned to Ludenwick. Agreeing that even if it turned out to be a dead end it was worth looking into, the party decided to assist her in her research.

Eight days of sea-travel later, the party reached Ludenwick and, with the exception of Flora who had business with Esker Tiyani of the artificer’s university, dove headfirst into the archives. Moreen focused on boneclaws in her reading and was able to learn that they were the result of wizards who failied to achieve lichdom, in addition to the exact nature of the rejuvinative abilities that made them so difficult for Ludenwick’s forces to combat. Victor found that there was some solid evidence behind the rumours of an ancient undead-slaying blade. It had once belonged to a paladin of a sun god from ages past and owed its powers to a ceremony called the Ritual of Deathbane held at the island of Sen, beyond the Shattered Sea.

Meanwhile, Flora returned to Esker with the materials for her bag of tricks and started on the necessary work for its creation, putting in fourteen of an eventual twenty days of crafting that allowed the rest of the party to take an additional week beyond what was needed for their research to pursue their own ends. During that time, Moreen took the opportunity to hire a tour guide to get the lay of the land in the city and Victor spent his time reading up on the exact nature of a phylactery and the documented resistances and immunities of liches past.

Next
[Session 12](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2012.md)