---
date: 2019-04-14
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 19

Shocked by the reappearance of Yulicese and the disappearance of Oadicius, but without any means to track them, the party resolved to explore the rest of the cult’s headquarters in the hopes that Yulicese had been staying in the building and may have left clues that would point to the location to which he had teleported away. Most of the northeastern rooms remained unsearched, so the party took the winding hallways of the warehouse through production and packaging rooms (as well as innumerable kitchens), encountering a pair of barlguras along the way, until they entered into an office space. On the desks lay reports of the status of all manner of goods, from food to potions to weaponry. A separate office a little further down the hall contained a series of filling cabinets detailing financial records for the warehouse but, given the fact that the cult had entirely vacated the building, the party’s search for clues to the nature of Yulicese’s designs had proved fruitless.

Returning to the southern end of the warehouse, the four searched a few storage rooms, finding a few weapons of some monetary value and a box filled with potions. This box, however, proved to hold a trap mechanism that Flora unwittingly set off in attempting to collect them, knocking Victor out and causing significant harm to the rest of the party. After taking some time to be magically healed, the party headed through the final door they hadn’t yet stepped through. Beyond, they saw a horned devil lounging in a chair, reading a book. He barely looked up as he addressed them. Although none of the four had any knowledge of Infernal, it was clear he wasn’t hostile, so Victor took the necessary time to perform a ritual casting of comprehend languages. Seeing this, the devil repeated his request that the party leave him alone, as he was at a particularly good point in the tale. Exhausted from fighting their way through waves of cultists and fiends, the group told the devil they were happy to do so and retreated to one of the nearby kitchens to recover some of their strength.

During the brief rest, Flora noticed the sound of shifting stone in the distance and alerted the rest of the party to it. Moreen, who had advocated they return to slay the devil, opened the kitchen’s west door to head off in that direction, only to find that there was no longer a hallway on the other side. Instead, a sheer wall of stone that slowly shifted, making it clear that inevitably the entire warehouse would be destroyed by its inexorable progress. With the possibility of claiming the treasures the devil guarded, the party followed a long hall to the utmost east of the warehouse to the northern exit of the building.

The four emerged in an alleyway and began to discuss what might be done to retrieve Oadicius. In a stroke of serendipity, a town crier happened to be announcing the development of an ongoing situation on Taft Island, where a fiendish cult had tried to fill the power vacuum created by Bethany’s kidnapping. Seizing the potential lead, the party made their way to Rosewood Manor to make use of Eris’ teleportation circle, informing her of what had transpired in the process.

Using the sigil sequence for the Adventurer’s Guild, the party arrived on the island in the midst of his efforts to organize a small counterforce of adventurers against the fledgling cult. At the appearance of the party, Oscar Milne informed them of the severity of recent events, explaining that Yulicese, believing that the military resistance against the treat Eaton represented to the Underdark had been tepid at best and convinced he would do better in protection the people, had declared himself the Fist of Tyr and intended to govern the island with an iron fist. Several dissenters had been executed by Yulicese and his cult and riots had broken out in the streets. He and the adventurers who had been on standby on the island were planning to make their move tomorrow and would welcome the party’s help. The party was willing to lend their assistance, though they needed a full night’s rest before they could put up much of a fight against Yulicese.

Milne put the party up for the night and gathered them in the morning. While the other squads of adventurers set out for various objectives around the town, he and the party would storm city hall, where the Fist of Tyr had taken up residence. Their former companion was awaiting the group’s arrival, standing on the front steps of the building. He seemed amused that the party had come after him but wasted no time taunting them, instead launching himself into the fray. As the party whittled down his defenses, it became clear that he would lose the fight. Just as he had in Ludenwick, he escaped with a teleportation spell, despite Victor’s attempt to nullify it. Oscar Milne was able to catch up with one of the fleeing cultists, who had been routed by the near defeat of their leader, and they told the party that the cult had another stronghold beneath Cain’s Coffin. Hoping that Yulicese had indeed retreated to Cain’s Coffin, the party wasted no time in teleporting back to Rosewood Manor to enlist the use of the Black Waltz from Eris.

They set out the very same day, spending the entire length of the 3-day journey undisturbed by seafarers fair or foul. However, on the night of the second day, Moreen experienced a strange dream. It began innocuously, with Moreen enjoying an evening at a grand ball with her love, Princess Genevieve of Saut. But, as they took to the dancefloor, a humanoid-shaped ball of light interceded as her partner, declaring inscrutably that *“The answer lies at Kalepick Keep”* before disappearing as abruptly as it had appeared. In the morning, she shared the dream with the rest of the party, who concluded it was some type of oracle from the god Torkan. Cain’s Coffin was a strange sight, being essentially a slab of rock floating in the Dark Seas. Legend claimed that the demigod Cain, child of Uria killed by Morin, was entombed in its depths. A cave had been carved into it by some means, leading to a small cavern that the cult had made their own.

The party made a valiant attempt at stealth that was immediately foiled, resulting in the first of three battles within the cave. The majority of the combatants were low-ranking cultists who posed little threat to experienced adventurers but they were led by priests who wielded considerably more power, though they eventually fell to the party just the same. Before they could get much of a breather, two giant skeletons attacked the party, initiating another battle. In much the same way, once the two skeletons had been defeated, another group of cultists spotted the party as they made their way further into the cave and managed to get off a surprise attack. These cultists turned out to be guarding a crude prison filled with twenty or so commoners, whom the party freed and shepherded back to the Black Waltz once it became clear that Yulicese – if he had come to the Coffin at all – had long vacated the island.

Keen to follow the vision Moreen had received from Torkan before the trail went cold, the party arranged teleportation back to Taft Island for the rescued prisoners, who would be returned to their homes but Oscar Milne and his guild, to allow them to voyage into the waters around Kalepick Keep without endangering non-combatants. As they sailed past the edge of Ludenwick-controlled waters, fog and ghostly ships filled the horizon. Though ominous, they were untroubled for the duration of their travel to Kalepick Keep. As they approached, Maven informed them of what she knew of the island. A palace, now crumbled into ruin, was the main fixture of the island. A drow noble who had broken off from her family had established it but she and her palace had been stricken by Lolth’s wrath, leaving the building empty ever since.

Next
[Session 20](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2020.md)