---
date: 2019-10-06
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 21

Having tested their mettle against a dragon, the party felt confident enough in their preparations to mount an expedition to Epiphora. Two of the boneclaws they sought to destroy maintained Eaton’s control of the temple to Uria on the island and the potential of sabotaging his ability to create the deathlocks that populated his forces made it an appealing destination. Flora told as much to Eris, who informed her that she had a contact on the island whom they would be wise to speak with. The contact was a wizard by the name Yldor. He and Eris had been corresponding for some time and, as a resident of Epiphora, he would be able to provide more current insights into the ever-shifting status of the temple. It was, she clarified, a living entity unto itself rather than a simple building and would pose unique challenges to the party.

Ulric plotted a course to the island, estimating a six-day journey. Four of the requisite days came and went without incident until the Black Waltz passed into the territory controlled by the lich. A pack of gloamwings descended on the ship a mere hour after the thick fog that had become a hallmark of the eastern seas of the Underdark. The crew, assisted by the party, was able to fend off the attack without much difficulty, though the event made it clear that they would need to be on high alert for the rest of the voyage. The following afternoon, as the desolate island came into view on the horizon, a strange turbulence stirred beneath the waves. In the distance, Flora spied the cause of the disturbance - a storm giant was walking purposefully toward them. The giant scooped up the Black Waltz with ease, battering most of those aboard but he was defeated before he could do lasting damage to the vessel.

The small port of the island had been abandoned for some time, as its sole occupant was the ghost ship the party knew to lead Eaton’s forces at sea. Standing on the deck of the ship was the lich himself, waiting for the Waltz to arrive. The party was not keen to attract his wrath as they had in Nargothbel and sought another point on the island to make landfall. Their efforts were in vain, however, as Eaton teleported to the strip of beach where the crew had parted ways with the four adventurers. He admonished the party for ignoring him and thanked them for eliminating the obstacle of Zersani from his conquest of the Underdark. The conversation that followed was not especially productive, as the party was not impressed with Eaton’s threats. Once he had tired of bandying words with the party, the lich departed with the ominous statement that Moreen’s blade would do her little good against him once he had killed the god that gave it its holy power.

With the island nearly barren, the two landmarks it possessed stood out starkly in the distance. The gothic outline of the temple to Uria could be made out even from the edge of the island and a small watchtower stood between it and the beach. The soft glow of lamplight illuminated the windows and marked the tower as the likely home of Yldor. With their destination set, the ground traversed the eerily empty fields of Epiphora in silence. At a knock on his door, Yldor came to greet the party. Despite the lateness of the hour, the explanation that they were employees of Eris was enough to get them through the door and invited to his study for tea. While he put the kettle on, Victor took the opportunity to peruse the books on his shelves. Yldor’s areas of study were spatial manipulation and arcane healing, both of which were relatively untapped magical fields. Most intriguing was a letter from Eris that mentioned successful efforts to discover the resting place of Korth’s corpse.

Yldor returned shortly with tea, willing to answer the party’s questions about the temple. He told them that the building was malleable to its own whims and often in flux. For the moment, Eaton had stabilized its layout to thirteen fixed floors using a relic of Uria which the temple obeyed. At the bottom of the temple stood a portal to the realm of Hades, where Uria ruled. He also made a request of the party to recover an amulet that his sister, who had gone into the temple and never returned, if they were able to find her body. To facilitate this, he offered a selection of magic items and a place to stay the night, both of which the party availed themselves of.

Once night gave way to morning, the party set out for the temple. It was an imposing edifice of black stone that gave the impression it was absorbing light rather than reflecting it. A muffled scream of anger could be heard inside, putting the party on their guard as they entered. The entrance hall was marked by niches holding candles, decorated with mosaics that complimented the grand mural of Uria’s throne at the rear of the room. One of the demons of the Shadowfel stood guard in the centre of the room, forcing the party to dispatch it before they could explore further.

After the battle, the party was drawn to the double doors at the end of the hall. A section of the mural was missing here, presumably functioning as a key to the doors, leaving the doors to the east and west as their only options. A library stood behind one of the doors, filled with religious manuscripts and magical scrolls. Additionally, a secret door in this room led to a stash of platinum that rivaled Zersani’s hoard. In an adjoining room, two undead eladrin sat in meditation. Though they were not hostile, they informed the party that if they did not leave the temple, they would have no choice but to kill them under the orders Eaton had laid down for them. Rather than press the issue, the party doubled back to the foyer to try the other door. It proved to be locked but was no match for Moreen’s strength, allowing the party into what seemed to be a space for hosting events. A second demon skulked in this room and attempted to reel Moreen into its grasp, but the party was able to kill it before it could do them much harm. Two more rooms were found in this wing of the temple but there was no obvious way of unlocking the main doors of the temple.

Using her enchanted paint, Flora cut out the middleman by drawing a door into the wall. It let out in a large room that was empty save for a portal that the party determined allowed access to the second floor of the temple. As the party stepped through the portal, they prepared to face whatever the next level of the temple would throw at them, knowing that it would only get more dangerous as they descended deeper.

Next
[Session 22](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2022.md)