---
date: 2018-09-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 10

Once the party had reassembled and the corpses moved out of sight, they made their way toward unexamined areas of the barracks, finding a corridor adjacent to rows of rooms where off-duty guards could rest and recover from a day’s work. Hearing sounds of activity within, the six decided to start with a stealthy approach that didn’t last very long, as the guards were alerted by a very indignant “ouch” from an invisible Victor being stepped into by another member of the party. In the ensuing battle, once more than half of the unprepared, off-duty guards had been dispatched, two guards turned tail and made their escape via one of the rooms’ window. The two didn’t escape the party for long, however, as Jasper and Flora followed when they caught a glimpse of their figures out in the night while double-checking the rooms further down the hall. Taking them out despite the guards’ promises that they wouldn’t alert anyone to what had transpired, Jasper and Flora hid them in the nearby hedges while the rest of the party hid the bodies of the guards they had defeated inside.

Satisfied that the potential reinforcements for the guards assigned to the Baron’s protection had been thinned, the group decided to return to the party until the appointed time to meet with Lady Willow in the gardens. Jasper, Moreen, and Victor returned to the main ballroom to mingle with guests while Flora, Loïc, and Rei remained outside and chatted amongst themselves. Forty minutes later, they rendezvoused with Lady Willow and her allies. She had procured a trumpeter’s outfit for Flora and used a disguise kit to mask her appearance. Final preparations were made and the conspirators dispersed to take their places in the crowd for the Baron’s address to the guests and to the people of Leysse at midnight.

The plan couldn’t have come together better. During the playing of Leysse’s national anthem, Flora weaved a Crown of Madness spell on the Baron, causing him to suddenly attack one of the other trumpeters, killing them and causing utter chaos to erupt as everyone realized what had just occurred. Using the confusion to her advantage, Flora ended the spell before anyone could spot the crown of twisted iron on the Baron’s head, leaving a bewildered Lord Mitore to the mercy of the small regiment of guards that arrived right on cue with Lady Willow, who addressed the crowd before arresting her father. The squad assigned to Lord Mitore were too shocked to do anything other than comply with Lady Willow’s request to stand down, and so it seemed that the party had been able to facilitate the downfall of Lord Mitore with only a single spell. The people of Leysse had either fled or lingered in the hopes of finding out what exactly had just happened and the party were beginning to consider heading inside to speak with Lady Willow when a contingent of guards ran out onto the steps of the castle, shouting about a coup d’état and the death of the Baroness before being shot down the archers stationed on the ramparts.

In the renewed confusion, the party resolved to head inside and see what was happening for themselves, retrieving the weapons they had hidden nearby in the event they were needed. Only a few paces into the castle, they were stopped by a squad of guards who demanded to know what they were doing inside, warned them that it was not safe and that they should leave, and headed off to engage in skirmishes with another faction of guards. Despite being near-threatened, it wasn’t too difficult to press further into the castle, as the guards were too busy fighting each other to pay much attention to intruders. Up on the balcony from which Lord Mitore had been intended to deliver his speech, Lady Willow and her brother Kenndrin were locked in a duel, the body of their mother laying dead nearby. The party sprung into action to assist Lady Willow and the guards loyal to her who were fighting nearby, succeeding in killing most of the guards still loyal to Mitore before they could cause too much harm and mortally wounding Kenndrin, who was stabilized by his sister before he could bleed out.

Now that there was no active fighting in the room, the party was able to ask what had happened. Lady Willow replied that the baroness had been killed accidentally by a guard attempting to arrest her, resulting in Kenndrin and a good portion of the castle’s guard taking up arms against the usurpers. Soldiering on despite the loss, Lady Willow instructed those loyal to her to clean up the remaining fights in the castle and invited the party to stay the night at the castle, with the understanding that their rewards would be presented to them in the morning once everything was under control. Agreeing, the six awoke the next day to a spread of both breakfast and of spoils, including an enduring spellbook for Victor, plate armour for Moreen, a magical bardic instrument for Flora, and potions for Loïc, along with a few other magical items and a plethora of gold. During breakfast, Victor extended the friendship of his family to Lady Willow in her capacity as the newly installed baroness of Leysse and asked her to deliver a pair of letters to his family, since he would be unable to do it easily himself, prompting Moreen to wonder why the party would be returning to the Underdark. She was told to meet them while they prepared to depart in the afternoon to receive a fuller explanation, which she did. The situation with their patron, Lady Eris, and her uncle, the lich, came to light and Moreen offers to accompany them. As they would likely be making their descent into the Underdark without Jasper, who had not been seen since the night before, the party was happy to accept her help.

That afternoon, the group of five adventurers started on the two-day trek to Lanfeld, which would be their final stop before entering the Grey Passage once again. The remainder of the first day of travel was without incident, allowing the party time to attune to the magic items they had received and recover from the events of the prior evening. On the second day, they were attacked by a group of eight bugbears travelling in the opposite direction, who rained down javelins on the group’s cart but were no match for the party once they entered combat proper. Only a few hours later, they arrived in Lanfeld, passing through the toll gates that Flora, Rei, and Victor remembered from their first days of what had become a two-month journey on the Surface. Rather than finding a respite before what would undoubtedly be a perilous expedition underground, however, they were confronted with shocking news as they voiced their intention to journey to the Underdark to the guard collecting the toll; travel beneath the Surface was deemed even more dangerous now than ever – the city of Nargothbel, along with the majority of the settlements on the eastern side of the Dark Seas, had been destroyed in the party’s absence and, though the guard could not have told them why, the three who had sailed on the Errant Seeker knew at once who had been the cause.

Next
[Session 11](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2011.md)