---
date: 2018-07-11
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 7

In the morning, the group was surprised to find that Sparrow had disappeared as suddenly as he had first shown up. With no trail to follow nor any idea why he had left, they continued on to Marchberg, arriving in the afternoon of their third day of travel. Justine’s trial was scheduled for the following day so the party rented three rooms for the night and rested for the uncertain day ahead. Before heading down to the courthouse the next day, they met in one of their rooms to formulate a plan. Several ideas were tossed back and forth but there was no conclusive decision made. With only an hour left until the scheduled time of the trial, they went to the main lobby of the justice building, seeking out the defence attorneys who had been assigned to Justine’s case. They met with Aral and Loïc, who told the party that, although they would do all they could to fight for Justine’s innocence, Justice Elias Risinger had a reputation for sentencing far above the precedent for the crime.

They had resolved to speak with the judge personally and headed out into the adjacent hallway to do so before being interrupted by the sounds of a ruckus in the foyer. The statue of Lady Justice at the end of the hall had come to life and was pursuing an escaped criminal from the prison beneath the courthouse, who had taken a guard hostage. Victor tried and failed to put the man to sleep but he was susceptible to Flora’s Suggestion spell and was made to release the guard. The ensuing conversation between Loïc and the man, Jasper, revealed that he had been arrested for trespassing on the ruins of a holy site and sentenced to hanging. Though it was illegal to do so, it was clear that Risinger was handing out punishments that did not fit the crime. While Jasper was returned to his cell, the party went to Justice Risinger’s office to confront him. Thanks to Loïc’s Zone of Truth, they were able to extract from Risinger that a noble named Lord Mitore in Leysse had been offering bribes to judges who made convictions in Savoy with the intention of creating discontent toward the ruling powers there.

Under the threat of his crimes being brought to the attentions of Justice Alphonse Lavenza, the judge agreed to pardon the next several cases under his jurisdiction, including both Jasper and Justine. With Justine released, their business in Marchberg was concluded and the party went to escort Justine back to the manor. However, with the threat of injustice still looming in the form of Justine being framed for murder by an unknown person, Loïc decided to accompany them. Jasper, unable to pick up the trail of the group of mercenaries he worked with, followed suit and offered to serve as additional protection now that it was clear that the Lavenzas were being targeted, presumably by the agents of Lord Mitore.

As the newly constituted group of nine approached the bridge to Lucerne Manor, they were greeted by the sight of black smoke rising from the house, spurring them onward. When they arrived, it was clear that someone had set fire to the house. Most of the inhabitants of the house had escaped but the baroness had been trapped inside. Victor headed into the house, trailed by Flora, and was able to rescue his mother with her help. In the chaos of the injured being tended to and the flames being smothered, the party caught the trail of the culprit and followed its tracks to the foot of the Weissberg mountains to the northeast. In one of the caves they found a crude amalgamation of a creature that Victor had no hesitation in attacking. Despite its immunity to both the lightning spells Victor favoured and to any non-magical damage those like Rei without any spellcasting ability could throw at it, the party was able to kill the creature.

Rather than do something sensible, like burning it, Victor enlisted the party’s help in carrying the corpse back to the manor and hiding it in the cellar, giving no hint to them of his intentions. The remainder of the day was spent assisting in repairing the damage done to the manor and its inhabitants. That night, everyone had a well-earned rest, aside from Victor who absconded to the basement. The morning was quite sedate; Flora, Rei, and Jasper went into the kitchen to make themselves breakfast, Loïc took an opportunity to assist in the baroness’ recovery and market his skills as a lawyer, and Victor spoke to his father about going to Leysse to foil Lord Mitore’s designs on Savoy. Flora also took the opportunity of downtime to ask Jasper where she could find gryphons, learning that a few of the beasts made their nest in the Weissberg.

What remained of the morning was spent tracking down the location of their nest and at about midday the party found three gryphons. The five adventurers were able to slay them in short order, allowing Flora to recover the skin she needed for her bag of tricks. By the time they returned to the manor, evening had fallen and, considering that they had a long journey ahead, the party opted to spend the night resting in proper beds. Even Victor, who nonetheless spent several hours in the cellar with the creature’s corpse, got a proper rest at Elizabeth’s insistence. The following morning, the party prepared to embark on their trek to the kingdom of Leysse, saying their goodbyes to Henry, Justine, and the Lavenzas.

Next
[Session 08](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2008.md)