---
date: 2019-11-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 23

Another solitary vampire spawn lurked in the room beyond. They attacked the party and the resulting fight drew the notice of three bone nagas who made their lair in the adjoining room to the west. The magic wielded by the nagas made the battle much more dangerous and though the party was able to defeat the creatures, the four adventurers decided to forego combing the rest of the floor for valuables in favour of taking the staircase down to the third floor, which they had discovered in the room where they’d battled the failed Korth.

The unsettling use of bone in the architecture of the second floor gave way to cobblestone on the next floor, though bone still could be found here and there, as though the bricklayers had laid the stone around the fragmented corpses. Before the party could speculate much on the change, they came across a wounded cambion. Rather than attacking the four, they implored the group’s help. They had come out the worse in a battle with a vampire spawn and hoped the party could deal with her so that the cambion could return to their base. They offered the party a reward for doing so and the party obliged. The vampire had been weakened from her fight with the cambion and Moreen was able to slay her with Torkan’s Justice.

True to their word, the cambion, who introduced themself as Zera, escorted the party past the numerous traps that had been placed between the stairs and their base. When they arrived, they were greeted by an arcanaloth named Lerin. Lerin had taken Zera on as an apprentice and seemed less than pleased that they had promised rewards to the party, though he grudgingly let them enter the base despite his misgivings. While he and Zera retrieved the promised potions, the party spoke with Lerin’s other apprentice, Tor. He told the party that the three of them had been forced up from the lower floor some time ago and had taken refuge on this floor, sparking animosity from the vampires. They had come to the temple to make use of its ambient magic in constructing an obelisk that would, through some obscure means, bring about the destruction of the Material Plane. For some reason, the vampires had taken exception to this and though they were hermits, the vampires would often do what they could to stymie their efforts.

The majority of the party was inclined to agree with the vampires, insofar as the destruction of the world was concerned, but they needed a place to recover from the encounter with the bone nagas. To that end, the party feigned agreement with Lerin and his apprentices’ ends and were allowed to take an hour or so to rest. Once they were once again fit enough for combat, they surprised the mages on their way ostensibly out to fight the vampires. Lerin was a powerful opponent who had trained his apprentices well, but the element of surprise was their undoing.

Amidst concerns that having slain one of the vampire spawn earlier might not ingratiate them to the vampires, the party approached the eastern side of the floor where the vampires had claimed their territory. As soon as the vampire who met them at the door established that they were adventurers who wanted to pass through to the fourth floor rather than crusaders against undead intent on killing them, they needed to hear nothing else from the four. The party was hurriedly taken to the stairs and summarily bid goodbye.

At this point, the temple’s architecture begun to resemble the normal construction of a building, absent of the foundation of bones that they had seen on the previous two floors. Mosaics intricately constructed from small coloured stones adorned the walls, depicting the life of a religious figure, likely a saint who figured prominently in the worship of Uria. A stone door at the end of the hall of mosaics had an epitaph carved into it, proclaiming that the saint would rise at the command of the sacred glaive. The party could surmise that the glaive the epitaph referred to was the relic of Uria that Eaton had stolen, making it likely that the saint was now in the thrall of the lich.

Beyond the stone door, several mummies rose from their coffins, attacking the party. Though Flora was able to immolate one of them, the party possessed little in the way of fire magic. Fortunately, Torkan’s Justice was anathema to all undead and its holy power served them well in the fight. The following room held only one coffin. Its occupant was speaking with an elf when the party entered, clearly possessed of more consciousness than the less powerful mummies they had cut their way through. She asked after the party’s intentions, telling them that to step foot any deeper in the temple was tantamount to defiling it. It seemed that they would come to blows until the party was able to clarify that they were enemies of Eaton who sought to reach the heart of the temple solely to destroy the boneclaw he had stationed there.

Cyrise took Moreen’s word and, in fact, requested their assistance as enemies of her enemy. The portal to Uria’s realm that Eaton had pried open was not only an affront to Uria but it served as an unending source of troops for the lich’s armies. Sealing it would benefit them all and the party agreed to do so when they reached the final floor of the temple. In repayment, she commanded the remainder of the entombed mummies on the floor not to trouble the adventurers and warned the party that she had only been released from Eaton’s control by the efforts of her wife Sarai, most of the other mummies below would be hostile to their presence.

A putrid stench rose up from the fifth floor as the party made their descent, emanating from a corpse flower that had been feeding on the bodies of those unfortunate enough to die in the temple. Although the scent was almost debilitating, the party persevered and killed the plant, allowing them to explore the rest of the floor. To the north, they found the alchemical remnants of Lerin’s former laboratory, filled with half-completed potions and prototypes of the obelisk he had sought to build. Another of the empty vessels of Korth lay lifeless on this floor, coiled like a tripwire in a room to the west. Knowing better than to approach it after their last encounter with one of the golems, the party avoided the construct by ducking down a hall to the south. There, however, they encountered three sword wraith commanders who were primed to attack them at once.

Next
[Session 24](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2024.md)