---
date: 2020-05-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 31

With one of the two ladies magically marked and Jasper’s extensive skills as a ranger, it was a simple matter for the party to trace their path through the city despite leaving after they were long out of sight. Regardless of the lateness of the hour, ships were still going in and out of port, making the presence of both the party and the ladies not particularly notable. Ladies Cain and Abel eventually reached a warehouse, where they entered and disappeared from view. Using her broom, Flora peered in through the second floor of the warehouse, seeing nothing more exciting than two disused offices but hearing conversation and footsteps inside.

The two brooms in the party’s possession allowed them to get all but Oadicius into the larger of the two offices before the door opened, revealing Ezra and their quarries on the other side. Although weapons were drawn on both sides, Ezra seemed more annoyed by the party’s presence than anything. They demanded an explanation for the party’s presence, reminding them sharply that not everything in this city concerned them. From the little revealed in the conversation, it became clear that it was not directly about the theft the party sought to prevent, so they agreed to back off.

Once the four had filed unceremoniously out the window, Flora used the crystal ball to scry on Lady Cain. The spell took too long to catch the whole exchange but she was able to see that documents and a dagger had changed hands. Using the thought-reading abilities of the crystal ball, Flora learned that the ladies intended to use the dagger - a dagger of venom - in four days.

Feeling that there was little else to be gained from returning to the ballroom, the party retired to their suite for the night. Ezra was waiting for Victor in his room, curious about why they had been following Ladies Cain and Abel in the first place. He gave the details they had learned so far of the plot, which they were surprised to hear of. They had been hired a few times by the ladies for thefts but it was not common. Much more interesting was the fact that the security of the vault would be compromised in eleven days, allowing Ezra to sneak in and take some things in the chaos. On the way out, they liberated Victor of some of his gold and mentioned that they had heard of a plan of assassination in the palace to be carried out in the next few days.

In the common area, Flora continued to scry on Ladies Cain and Abel. They were discussing their plans for tomorrow, with the dagger set on Lady Abel’s vanity. In the hopes of foiling the murder they had planned, Flora sought to steal the dagger once they had gone to sleep. With Jasper in tow and a replica dagger from Oadicius, Flora polymorphed into a pill bug to carry out her scheme. Unfortunately, an alarm spell had been placed at the door, alerting the ladies to Flora’s presence. With no alternative, Flora was forced to leave the suite emptyhanded.

A late morning followed the party’s nighttime activities, wherein they took their mail over breakfast. Flora had a message from Lady Pages asking for her attendance at brunch in two hours and Oadicius had one from Lady Marin requesting he attend a salon hosted by Bella Dryden as payment for her information. Coincidentally, an invitation to that very salon had arrived for the party at large, making Oadicius’ attendance a simple matter. Along with the correspondence, an inventory of the royal treasury had arrived courtesy of the queen consort. After pouring over the list of magic items, the party concluded that Eaton would likely be most interesting in the paired dagger of Uria or the unidentified arrow.

Surprisingly for the rest of the party, Oadicius explained that the arrow was an artifact of Morin. Communing with the god confirmed that it had the power to kill gods and, given Eaton’s actions thus far, such a weapon would be a great boon to him. Morin commanded Oadicius to guard the arrow with his life, which he took immediately to heart. With this new information, the party decided to split their focuses for the day. Jasper, Moreen, and Oadicius would speak with the queen about their suspicions about the likely target, Flora would meet with Lady Pages, and Victor went into the city to see if there was any credence to the rumours of an assassination plot.

At brunch, Perry Pages asked Flora to assist her in waylaying the deliveryperson on their way to Lady Amber’s suite, with the intention of sabotaging her rivals for Tara’s affection by stealing their letters. Flora was willing to do so and the two made plans to attempt the deed that evening. Victor, knowing one whole shady establishment in the city, was noticed by a pair of ne’er-do-wells who indicated there may indeed be plans for assassination in the palace. They gave him the name of a criminal named Spark but not much more, as they recognized him from Ezra’s former notice against him and Flora. Meanwhile, the rest of the party had secured an audience with the queen.

When the party presented their concerns to the queen, she listened carefully. For much the same reason as their incognito inquisition, she was hesitant to take direct steps to secure the treasury, as it would become clear that they were aware of the theft and it might be impossible to catch the conspirator. Several ideas were suggested, such as laying a trap in the treasury itself or sequestering the arrow but when Oadicius mentioned that he brought this to their attention as a cleric of Morin, the queen agreed to allow him to take the arrow. She stressed that the consequences if it was not returned would be dire for them all and gave Oadicius a ribbon from her hair to tie around the arrow to keep it in proximity to the bloodline to which it had been bequeathed.

Jasper questioned Gerenia on those who might have knowledge of the vault’s contents. There were those assigned to guard the vault, a special contingent of queensguard, and the royal historian, Maria Martinet. Seeking to narrow their list of suspects by finding out who might be responsible for the leak of information, Jasper decided to tackle the guards while Flora and Victor spoke to the historian. Oadicius and Moreen decided to attend the salon, as Oadicius had debts to repay in doing so.

In discussion with the steward, Timothy Martinet, Jasper learned that there were two guards at the doors of the treasury at all times, switching every four hours. He wondered if it was possible that one of the guards might have given information about who would be assigned to the vault to the wrong people but the steward took almost ludicrous precautions to prevent such things. Further, most of the guard were proven loyalist, with the youngest member having saved the queen’s life to earn his position. Still uncertain on the culpability of the queensguard, Jasper spoke to the guards themselves. They took to him as a fellow professional and invited him to the Silver Snake, their favourite bar, that night which he accepted in the hopes it would be more illuminating.

The dynamic duo headed to the royal archives to meet with Maria Martinet. After confirming their identities, she was willing to let them look at the records of access for historical records pertaining to the royal family. With the recent opera, many of its staff had done research there, including the composer Lord Assylstine. More interestingly was Toby Summerstep, whose visit with his wife was understandable as preparation to critique the performance but his visit two months earlier raised some questions. When asked about the ancestor depicted in the opera - being the original owner of the arrow Ichor - Maria was thrilled to speak on the subject, scheduling a meeting with Victor the following morning to discuss it more thoroughly.

At the salon, Moreen and Oadicius noted several familiar faces lingering outside in the hallway, including the Ladies Athalos, Lady Summerstep and a beleaguered assistant, and Eris who was speaking with Lady Amber. Heading inside, the pair were greeted by Bella Dryden, who was delighted by their decision to attend. However, just as she called for the beginning of the day’s schedule, an explosion could be heard just outside in the hall. Alarmed, Oadicius and Moreen threw open the door to find Lady Amber dead and Eris on the brink of death herself. Despite the evidence, her injuries were not consistent with the impact and head of an explosion. The two did not have time to examine her beyond rudimentary healing magic, as Eris insisted that they pursue the culprit before they escaped.

Next
[Session 32](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2032.md)