---
date: 2018-06-13
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 4

In the absence of any further instructions from Eris, Flora and Victor elected to check one of the city’s notice boards, finding three postings that seemed to be within their abilities to complete. The first was a request from Old James Timbaers, who needed passage to the island of Quell. The second was hastily written and signed by an Amelia Bracegirdle who lived in Prydin Row, asking for help in dealing with a haunted doll that she had inheirited. The third was from Esker Tiyani, a professor at one of the alchemist’s colleges in Aleire, who was seeking the seeds of a plant cultivated by the druids of Bonavida. They decided to visit Prydin Row first. Amelia had received the doll on the death of her aunt and, since taking it in, it had thoroughly wrecked her home. It apparently originated in a cave along the Stalagmite Mountain Chain that was home to a group of nothics, which was a possible reason for it being haunted. She recommended that the party return it to the cave, but she paid the promised gold as soon as they took it into their possession. In the adjacent district of Aleire, the party met with Esker, who reiterated his request and provided a sketch of the bulbs he wanted them to retrieve.

Before heading out to the docks to meet with Timbaers, Flora suggested that they take the doll to someone with the ability to speak to the dead in order to get some more information about the spirit haunting the doll. They eventually found a place called Kada’s Clairvoyance, where the eponymous Kada was able to allow the party to question the spirit. Its answers were inconclusive, as it could not understand anything that had happened after its death, but Flora again suggested that they simply take the doll to a cleric to release the spirit from it, rather than potentially face angry nothics in trying to return it to where it had been taken from. With the help of Erik Clerikson, priest of Lathander, they were able to banish the ghoul that had been inhabiting the doll, though it did attack as it was forced out of its vessel.

With one of their tasks out of the way, they went to speak with Timbaers at The Broken Boar and take him to the Errant Seeker. Once there, Rachel had a quick errand that she asked Flora and Victor to take care of - delivering a package to a man named the Watchmaker in Upper Ghostspire and then taking a letter from him to her husband, Tobias, who would be waiting for them by the wreck of the Proud Dominatrix. It was a simple enough thing to complete, though both of them were surprised to find that Tobias had been cursed to take the form of a hawk. With all their business on the mainland concluded, the Seeker set off first for Quell, where they could drop off Old James before arriving at Bonavida. The journey, while long, was mostly uneventful aside from an encounter with a plesiosaur that the crew and the party had to repel from ramming the side of the ship. After a short stop at Quell for Timbaers and the delivery of a package from Maven to a cousin of hers, the party arrived at Bonavia, following Esker’s directions to the Ennet’s Greenhouse, where they could find the seeds he wanted, joined this time by Rei of the Errant Seeker. The main building was guarded by a wood woad, but the shed to the side was not, and had a trapdoor leading down into a small system of underground tunnels. They were able to find the seeds without much difficulty but they were caught on their way out by two druids who were unimpressed with the excuse that they had gotten lost. A combination of Sleep, Suggestion, and Dissonant Whispers allowed the party to escape without having to engage in a direct fight.

Returning to Ludenwick by way of Nargothbel to avoid a pair of killer whales who they had been warned of by the crew of a recent wreck, the ship was stopped by a drow military vessel who took half of the ship’s cargo, knowing that the crew didn’t have a chance in what would have been a nearly 3-to-1 fight to stop them. Back in the city, Victor and Flora gave Esker his seeds and were promised the first in the batch of antidotes the professor intended to create with them for their troubles. A subsequent trip to the post office led to two discoveries - that Eris had been called away on business and would not be back in Ludenwick for at least a month, so there would be no further breakthroughs on the lich situation until then, and that Victor’s brother had been murdered. Despite attempting to avoid discussing the matter with Flora, he was unable to disguise his grief for very long, eventually making it clear that something was wrong when he broke down in the local Dionysus’. In their quarters on the Errant Seeker, Victor explained what exactly it was that he had created that got him expelled from his wizardry college and his conviction that it - and by extension, Victor himself - was responsible for his brother’s death. Flora, revealing that she felt responsible for her own brother’s death, decided to join him in leaving the Underdark to attend the funeral and track down the creature that had killed William Lavenza.

With Rachel’s blessing, Rei would be joining them once again on their trip to the surface. She would take them to the Grey Passage, but from there they would have to travel by land. On their way to the Passage, there was a disturbance in the cargo hold, caused by a pair of oozes that had somehow ended up aboard, but the crew and the party were able to defeat them before they could spread much further. A few days later, the party reached the Grey Passage and bid farewell to the crew of the Seeker, preparing for their journey to surface.

Next
[Session 05](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2005.md)