---
date: 2019-03-24
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 17

A further two days of travel passed without the Waltz being troubled by malevolent forces. On the sixth day of travel, Flora spotted a bat-like undead creature flying toward the ship, carrying on its back a deathlock who wasted no time in attacking the vessel. The fight was brief, as when the tides of battle begun to turn against the deathlock, it made its escape, likely to warn the forces at Nargothbel of the party’s impending arrival. Both the undead of Nargothbel and the party had a day of rest before the five adventurers made landfall at the city. None of them had seen the city at its peak but the sight of its utter destruction was nonetheless a grim reminder of Eaton’s power. Only the skeletal outline of a city still stood and black smoke choked the air. On its outskirts, the deathlock, its mount, and the boneclaw staged their ambush, catching all but Flora off-guard. The two sides exchanged blows until the boneclaw was knocked unconscious, prompting the deathlock to try to flee with the boneclaw’s body to prevent its destruction. However, the necessity of coming near to ground level allowed Jasper, Flora, and Moreen to kill both bat and rider before they could escape.

The moment Moreen prepared to recite the ritual, a column of smoke coalesced into the form of Eaton, who told the party that they had finally become enough of a nuisance to draw his attention and informed them of his intentions to visit his daughter and niece in the near future. He attempted to teleport away with the boneclaw but was stopped by a counterspell, forcing him to engage the party. They were no match for him but were able to permanently destroy the boneclaw before Jasper and Moreen were knocked unconscious and the rest of the party wounded to the brink of unconsciousness themselves. Content that they were no further threat to him, Eaton walked off to grind the rest of the city of Nargothbel into dust, allowing the five to make a hasty retreat after some quick battlefield healing from Oadicius.

On the return journey, Victor contacted Eris, sending her a version of Eaton’s threat that was intended to be condensed but was in practice vague and left out the key detail that Bethany was in danger as well. By the time they’d returned to Ludenwick, Eris had begun setting up extensive protections for herself but it was only when she asked exactly what the lich had said that the party realized Bethany had not been able to do the same. When they were unable to contact her, they teleported over to Taft Island, where they hurried to the town hall. Oscar Milne was at the scene of the disappearance, conveying the little that had been heard prior to her abduction and concluding with the party that it was more likely than not that she was now dead. Deciding they would find no further information on the island, the party teleported back to Rosewood Manor to ask Eris for a scrying focus that Oadicius might be able to use to divine her location. However, the spell found no target when cast, leading the party to certainty that Bethany was beyond their help now.

Knowing that there was nothing else they could do, the party gave Eris some time to process her loss and went out to take care of various errands. Oadicius, with pooled party funds, purchased various qualities of resurrection diamonds, Flora delivered her bouquet of explosive flowers to Esker, and Victor accompanied by Jasper went to purchase spell components. As they left the shop, a man shouted after them, claiming that he had been searching for Jasper. Jasper recognized this man as the guard he had spared three months ago in Leysse. The man, Yann, demanded that Jasper finish the job and threw down his blade. Completely out of the loop, Victor took the brief de-escalation as a chance to request an explanation, which Jasper provided. Then he turned to Yann and, in response to his desperate question of why he had been spared, Jasper told him that someone had saved his life once and he had been trying to return the favour. Ironically, in doing so, he had replicated his own survivor’s guilt in Yann. He returned Yann’s sword to him and said that he should take up a new purpose in life - namely becoming skilled enough to kill Jasper one day. Finding this to be a worthy pursuit, Yann left behind a satisfied Jasper and a deeply concerned Victor.

As evening approached, Victor passed by Esker’s office at the university and asked him if he could procure a manual outlining the creation process of a flesh golem. Esker did not have a direct line to one but he offered to put Victor into contact with a fence who could find one through underhanded means. He agreed and was told to expect to be contacted later that evening. As usual, the party returned to their lodgings separately. Oadicius was informed by a young acolyte at the temple where he often stayed the night that a demonic cult had sprung up in Ludenwick and that the church of Lathander was increasingly concerned about their activities. Around the same time, Victor received notice that his contact would be waiting for him at The Winding Path in the Grey Docks. Despite being invisible, Flora was perceptive enough to hear his attempt at sneaking out unnoticed. Rather than choose a reasonable explanation for his actions, Victor decided to dig himself deeper into the hole he’d created and claim he was sneaking out to go on a date. Unconvinced, Flora followed him to the tavern, disguised as a tressym.

Victor was met by Esker’s contact not long after he’d arrived. As fate would have it, this contact was Ezra the Fleet, the very thief Flora and Victor had made an enemy of during the early days of their acquaintance. They were extremely disinclined to help him out, especially when they noticed an invisible Flora tailing him. She dropped the spell and asked Ezra if they were indeed on a date. Luckily for Victor, Ezra agreed to uphold this lie and Flora went home, unable to disprove it. Amused by the ridiculous circumstances, Ezra agreed to help Victor obtain the manual, though naturally it would not come cheap. If their quoted price was out of his range, however, they would settle for a prize from the hoard of the dragon rumoured to make its lair in Nocturne Caves. Victor agreed to the terms and the two parted ways once their conversation was over, leading Flora to conclude that the date must have ended poorly if he’d returned so soon.

At breakfast the following morning, Flora shared the night’s gossip with the rest of the party, intriguing Moreen but not convincing Oadicius in the slightest, and eventually pushing Victor enough to get him to admit that he had been setting up a less-than-legal magic item acquisition, though he didn’t reveal what the item in question was. Oadicius mercifully intervened at this point to highlight a ritual murder reported in the broadsheet, inform the group of the cult operating in their midst, and declare his intent to destroy them before they could do any more harm to the people of the city, a sentiment to which the other four acquiesced.

Next
[Session 18](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2018.md)