---
date: 2018-06-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 6

On their way out of the city gates of Lanfeld, the party encountered an aasimar named Sparrow. He said that he recognized Flora and Victor from dreams that had been sent to him by his patron and he joined them on their way. Leysse sat on the border of Savoy, so the bulk of their journey would be simply across the province itself. During the night of their first camp, more detailed introductions were made before turning in for the night. The next day, they headed through a lightly wooded area to the west of the town of Erstmeir and were attacked on the road by a group of goblins and their wolf companions. By the battle’s end, two wolves and one of the goblins remained standing and, as the goblin retreated and the wolves had been paralyzed by Flora’s magic, the party continued on without further incident that day.

It was after this encounter that Victor began using Paracelsus to scout ahead, hopefully avoiding any other ambushes. Their third day on the road passed mundanely until that night, when the alarm spell around the camp alerted them to the presence of five bugbears. Despite still being in the process of acclimating to fighting with a new member of the group by their sides, they made short work of their attackers and were able to still get a full night of sleep. For three days afterward, there was nothing of note along their path aside from other carts traveling along on their own business, but when danger did return just past the town of Lutherstadt, it came back with a vengeance. A roc swooped down from the sky, killing one of the two horses pulling the cart and presumably not intending to stop there. Fortunately for the party, Flora was able to use her dissonant whispers to force it to retreat.

Short one horse, the four decided to stop at Horgen to purchase a new horses and, as they had arrived in the late afternoon, stay overnight in a proper bed rather than sleeping on the ground or the cart as they had been. The start of their second week on the road was much less eventful and the more direct, northern path to Grauerstadt they were on looked to have been a good choice. The calm was not to last, though, as two boars trailed the cart and knocked it clean over, breaking the hitch in the process. The party was able to take out the boars before they did any more damage and, as Grauerstadt was relatively close at this point, stopped in the town to get the cart repaired. From Grauerstadt, the path went straight east to Lucerne Manor, their final destination. As they neared the end of the week, they were again accosted, this time by what appeared at first to be a single spider, but when it was defeated, two more appeared. The party soon discovered that they were phase spiders, as they became shifted in and out of the Material plane.

Nonetheless, they were no match for the party and the four adventurers made it to the bridge that led across the river Saône to the manor. They were met by a retinue of guards who, once they realized that Victor was among them, sent a messenger ahead to tell the Lavenzas of their arrival. They were met on the doorstep by Victor’s livid adoptive sister Elizabeth who read rightfully Victor the riot act for disappearing for six months without any contact at all. Inside, they met Baroness Amelia and her husband Justice Alfonse, as well as Victor’s brother Ernest. Amelia updated the party on the situation in Savoy: Justine, an employee of the household and a close friend of the Lavenza children, had been accused of the murder and was being held in Marchberg to await trial.

Victor, certain that the culprit was the creature he had created, agreed with Elizabeth that she couldn’t possibly be at fault and the party decided to go to Marchberg to clear her name. While Flora and Rei did some cooking in the estate’s kitchen, Victor went to meet with his childhood friend Henry in the library to discuss what could be done to hep Justine. Once everyone was ready to go, the party, now made up of six people, set off on the road for a comparatively short three day trek south to Marchberg. Their first day was uninterrupted by any monstrous encounters and, at camp that night, Victor made up for lost time with his sister and best friend, Flora played the kazoo, and Rei gave Sparrow some advice on how to deal with Idiots #1 & 2.

Next
[Session 07](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2007.md)