---
date: 2020-04-07
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 29

Returning to the floors beneath the Silk Market, the party readied themselves to face the apprentice and boneclaw who occupied the final fixed floor of the temple of Uria. The roaring flame of a brass brazier obscured the features of the tall woman in long robes who stood beside it, but not her wide smile in greeting nor her two serpentine pets. She told the party that Eaton had forewarned her of their arrival and asked if they had any last words. Despite a poorly thought-out gambit involving reversing gravity that Victor pulled at the beginning of the battle, the party was able to defeat Leah Maratok while remaining in fighting shape to face the boneclaw that lurked on this level.

Flora, using her ability to siphon the appearance and memories of the dead, took on Lady Maratok’s form and learned that the boneclaw was working some form of ritual to call forth a demonic creature. She also gained knowledge of various aspects of her personal life, including her friendship with Jessica Lovelle, Eris’ sister. With this knowledge, the party took a quick rest before proceeding.

Behind the door at the end of the room, the boneclaw had completed its ritual. A lizard-like creature crawled its way out of the pool of blood that lay opposite an altar to Uria just as Flora, still disguised as Leah, entered. Under the pretense that she had dealt with the intruders, she was able to deceive the boneclaw and provide the element of surprise for the rest of the party, who soon attacked. The boneclaw remained convinced that Flora was indeed Leah, going so far as to focus most of its attacks on Oadicius once he “confessed” to having charmed Leah. Moreen occupied the Sire of Insanity while the rest of the party defeated the boneclaw, allowing the four to deal with each opponent more or less separately.

Once the boneclaw had been slain once and for all by Torkan’s Justice, the altar at the north end of the room began to glow faintly. A skull appeared on the altar, sitting there a moment before floating over to the party. The skull thanked the party for cleansing her temple of the invaders who had defiled it and bestowed blessings on Flora and Victor. Oadicius and Moreen, likewise, were given tokens of the gods’ favour, though from Morin and Torkan respectively. A set of stairs were the only other feature in the room. Inexplicably, they led all the way up to the entrance of the temple despite not physically connecting there.

With no further business in Epiphora, Victor contacted Rachel to arrange transport back to Ludenwick. The Black Waltz would arrive the following morning, leaving the party with one final night at Yldor’s tower. Victor took the opportunity to ask the siblings about the god of the nightwalkers who had been obliquely referenced in the myth Silk told them of. Given Eaton’s intentions to summon such a creature, the information might be useful. Yrssah had done some research into this god, knowing that its existence supposedly predated any gods of the Material Plane by eons but it had not been heard from in even longer than some of the most ancient mortal gods. Many years ago, she had been in contact with someone who studied the nightwalkers more extensively and she was willing to arrange a meeting with them on the matter.

In the morning, as the Black Waltz settled at Epiphora’s lonely port, Maven came ashore to greet the party. Although the ship had not returned to Ludenwick in their absence, Eris had kept in touch with Rachel and her crew as much as she could with how busy she had been. There was soon to be a vote in the house of lords on whether the city ought to take defensive or offensive measures against Eaton and divisions between the two sides had been slowly solidifying. When the party returned to the city, Eris had requested to meet with them as soon as possible. She also had a package addressed to Moreen that had arrived a few days before, which she delivered to its recipient.

On the five day journey back to Ludenwick, the party worked on various endeavours, with Flora, Oadicius, and Victor working on alchemical and magical items. Moreen, however, did not have any long-standing projects until she opened her mail. It was from her fiancée, Genevieve, and contained a heartfelt letter and an obsidian necklace as a gift. Inspired by the gesture, she took up learning jewellery making from Rei for the remaining days of the trip.

Back in the city, the party headed immediately to Rosewood Manor to speak with Eris. She met them at the door, seeming frazzled but happy to see them again. She took the four into her office, which was in a state of uncharacteristic disarray, and listened to their account of what had happened at Epiphora. The letter from Eaton to his apprentice was particularly alarming to Eris, as the given date was only twelve days in the future and there were no clues as to the identities of any conspirators at the court. But, as the queen had requested an audience with the party, she urged them to inform her of the danger directly.

As the party had no other pressing matters at hand, Eris escorted them to the palace, providing some information on the particulars of the behaviour expected in the Silent Palace to those of the party who were unfamiliar with Ludenwick’s rulership. As much as possible, quiet was maintained in the halls of the palace and the queen herself had taken a vow of silence. Her wife would serve as an interpreter for her if the party wasn’t familiar with sign language.

Despite the many people moving here and there in the palace, it was near completely silent. Even the footsteps of the nobility and staff of the palace were muffled by the thick carpeting underfoot. Awaiting them in the throne room were the queen, Severina, the queen consort Gerenia, and a handful of guards. Severina thanked the party for their efforts against Eaton, highlighting their recent victory against him in the temple of Uria as hopefully the first foothold of many encounters where they would regain ground against him.

She questioned the party about what they knew of Eaton’s methods, his forces, and his goals. The group provided truthful information to the best of their ability before informing the queen that he had plans to steal something from the royal vault during her birthday celebrations. Both the incriminating letter and Flora’s testimony of what she had learned from Leah’s memories under a zone of truth were sufficient evidence for the queen. Due to the fractious political situation, she entreated the party to find the traitor without making it clear that the queen was aware of the upcoming theft, if at all possible. She provided a list of possible suspects, primarily consisting of those who favoured the defensive position. Suspicion fell most obviously on Jessica Lovelle or her paramour, as she was both a friend of Leah and a proponent of weathering Eaton’s attempts to conquer the Underdark, but a number of other suspects were equally implicated.

For the duration of their investigation, the queen offered to allow the party to take up residence in the west wing of the palace. Agreeing to the generous offer, the party was dismissed by the queen. Gerenia ushered them out of the throne room and took them to their rooms. Along the way, she asked the party whether they had any inclination as to what Eaton was after from the vault. The letter had not even hinted at what it could be nor did they have any knowledge of what was kept in the vault that might be useful. She promised to give the party a full inventory of its contents, though she knew a few artifacts of interest were part of the collection, including weapons associated with Morin, Lathander and Uria. This last one seemed a possible target, given that Eaton possessed one weapon of Uria already.

Once they were alone, Flora described a plan to force a confession out of their suspects, though it would only work on one person per day. She had the ability to convince someone that she was aware of their deepest secret and, in combination with divining their thoughts, she could actually learn that secret, given that it would be forcibly brought to mind. Choosing Lord Ani, the court artist who was one of the possible conspirators, as her first subject, she headed into their office to see whether or not her plan would work.

Just as Flora had hoped, the ploy worked perfectly. Lord Ani’s most mortifying secret was that they had gained their position by stealing the work of the composer Lord Assylstine rather than using their own compositions. Satisfied that they were not assisting Eaton, Flora agreed to keep their theft secret in exchange for a favour to be used at a later date. Lord Ani, who was otherwise afraid that they would lose their position in court, agreed.

As the party returned to their rooms with one less suspect, they found that someone was already waiting for them at the door.

Next
[Session 30](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2030.md)