---
date: 2018-12-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Christmas Special

In another strange cul-de-sac of the spacetime continuum, festivities for the winter solstice were in full-swing in Ludenwick. Simulated snow dusted the streets and decorations were set out on the doors of every house in the city. At the invitation of Lady Eris Eaton, the five adventurers had returned from their business in far-flung corners of the Underdark to attend her family’s annual yule celebration. Eris escorted them in to the main hall where the party was already in full swing. A few familiar faces such as Oscar Milne, Baroness Malkova, and Bethany Taft were in attendance, but the majority of the guests were friends of the Eaton family and not known to the group. Sensing that they might be at a loss, she recommended that they head down to the southern balcony where the crew of the Errant Seeker had congregated, particularly as they would have sufficient space to conduct the Secret Nicholas gift exchange that had been arranged earlier. In agreement with her, they headed down to the balcony, where Rei greeted them. She presented a gift on behalf of the entire crew to the party, which was promptly unwrapped, revealing it to be a spyglass.

Eris volunteered to host the gift exchange, to preserve the anonymity of the gift givers. However, Flora didn’t exactly attempt to conceal the odd dog-shape of her gift, making at least that gift’s origin obvious right off the bat. The dog-shaped box went to Loic, who was understandably apprehensive about opening it. Inside was a truly surprising amount of dried cranberries and a scarf. Victor received a package that was too well-wrapped to have been from Flora or Jasper and contained a pair of candles and a good amount of ink and paper, which he immediately set about making use of. Flora was gifted with a doll affixed with a hat and candy cane that recited a small, customizable message. Moreen’s gift came in the form of a letter that held a deed of sale for a warhorse, including a little sketch of the horse. Jasper’s gift was a set of leather barding for his horse and a matching bridle and halter set. Once all guesses had been made, the identities of the gifters was revealed and thanks were given by those who had received the gifts.

Then, the party split up to wander the dancefloor and otherwise enjoy the party. Victor immediately headed over to borrow Maven’s spellbook, now that he was in possession of materials to copy spells from its pages, and she agreed so long as she could have a look at his spellbook as well. Jasper tagged along and had a brief conversation which Rei in which she explained her blindsight. Flora intercepted Loic on his way in to the dancefloor with the intention of continuing her insistence that she had gotten him a dog. Loic did not buy this for a second but played along and let her dig herself into an even deeper hole until she ran out of details, upon which he headed over toward a woman in full armour, her son Soren, and the eccentric Lord Orin Pickering. The woman introduced herself as Knight Ira Athalos and, over the course of the conversation, took a liking to Loic, inviting him to her home for tea at some point in the future.

Moreen had similar intentions, heading to the eastern balcony and meeting Lady Illya Malkova, daughter of the Baroness, her aged husband Gereon Terryn, and Lord Perry Tusk. Illya took charge of the conversation and expressed interest in Moreen’s home of the surface, mentioning that she would be going to the surface herself in the summer with her husband. Meanwhile, Flora helped herself to another strawberry daiquiri and initiated a conversation with Oscar Milne about the state of his adventurer’s guild before heading off elsewhere once she remembered exactly what her effect on the guild’s affairs had been. By this point, Jasper had made his way to the dancefloor, making note of the general comportment of the guests and speaking to the Baroness Malkova, who recognized his association with Victor. She insisted that he bring Victor over so that they could catch up, which Jasper did in short order. Once the conversation turned to the party’s involvement in the Underdark’s lich-uation, however, the night’s revelry was ground to a halt, as the lich himself strode through the doors. Cutting an impressive figure, crowned with Ioun stones, he simply pointed a finger and the room was bathed in a white light, killing every one of the party’s attendees in one fell swoop. In the true timeline, the five adventurers awoke in an inn in Lanfeld, still on the Surface, with an inability to recall much about what they had dreamed that night, aside from the fact that it was decidedly unpleasant, and a few inexplicable new pieces of gear in their collective possession.