---
date: 2020-03-24
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 28

After their respite, the party returned to the cavern that held the well. Beyond Yrssah’s study lay a set of stairs that led them back into more familiar territory. Mosaics adorned the walls once more, depicting the life of another priest of Uria. From scene to scene, across the many moment of victory, the two consistent images were a heavily armed and armoured elven man and a frost giant. The party headed down the winding corridor to the south, finding a small treasury. Its gold coffers had been ransacked long ago but a rusty warhammer remained propped up in the corner, presumably as its disused appearance made it an unlikely target. However, examining the warhammer revealed that it was in fact a powerful magical weapon. Oadicius, favouring the hammer, took it for a new weapon.

Only one other hallway was immediately accessible, down which the party proceeded. A chill had built in the air as they approached the door. Once it was open, the party caught a glimpse of a mummy painting some type of mural for but a moment before a frost giant charged at them. Fortunately, Flora was able to ensnare the giant with an infectious song, giving them some breathing room. She addressed the mummy across the room, complimenting his work in process and seeking to keep him out of the battle by promising not to interfere with his opus. The mummy, apparently satisfied with these assurances, returned to his work.

With only one target to deal with, the party was able to defeat the giant without too much difficulty. Now that the party was no longer in immediate danger, they took some time to examine the mummy’s work. It was highly impressionistic landscape work, sprawling across most of the walls of the space. When the party attempted to move through the door that the mummy was working on, he insisted that they would ruin the painting. Flora attempted to bribe him with some of her magical pigment but he wasn’t interested.

It became clear that they would either have to wait for him to complete his work - which he estimated would take several days - or fight him. Oadicius, deciding that it was pointless to negotiate with the mummy, created a wall of flame. The mummy escaped by transforming into whirlwind of sand but the damage had already been done. In a last-ditch effort, the mummy cast a powerful necromantic spell that brought Oadicius a hair’s breadth from unconsciousness, reducing his vitality. However, the party was able to defeat with mummy before he could finish off the cleric and Victor still had the spell to remove curses prepared from their previous encounters with mummies.

Beyond the door lay the path to the next floor. Here, the murals depicted a number of mythological scenes: Sydra and Torkan arguing over dominion of the stars, their sibling Ephina being given dominion over them by Uria, Torkan and Uria quarreling over the murder of one of his priests, and Sydra kidnapping Ephina. A little ways to the south, the party found a room of skeletons fighting over possession of a box. Elsewhere in the room, a vampire named Elizabeth was hunting through the remaining boxes, though she noticed the party’s approach and turned to speak with them. She explained that she was searching for a means to retrieve the key that would remove the antimagic field that had been placed over the door that led down to the next floor, as she had been instructed to delivery something to an individual below. A coven of hags had taken possession of the key and Elizabeth had a personal conflict with them, as they had killed her brother. Since the party needed to bypass the field too, she proposed that they kill the hags and offered an enchanted crystal ball to sweeten the deal. The party agreed, searching for the lair of the hags.

Along the way, the party encountered an encampment of drow. They provided directions to the hags and offered to share their provisions with the party. They declined, as they would need the rest moreso after the battle with the hags. Upon mentioning their intentions to fight the hags, the drow expressed their trepidation. They had come to entreat the hags for their assistance in stimulating the harvest, as times had been tough lately for them. The ambassador whom they were escorting was meditating in a room nearby, if the party wished to speak with him. In the lavishly furnished prayer room on this floor, the party met with the ambassador. He was quite young, for an elf, but he had gleaned some useful information about the hags from his discussions with them. He remarked on their conflict with Elizabeth, though he was uncertain of its source, and gave a general description of the three hags.

Granny Agnes, the eldest, was crotchety in demeanour but willing to listen to a reasonable argument. Mother Laura was almost entirely a mystery, as she had only spoken to the ambassador once, though he knew she was the mother of the youngest hag. Said daughter was called Little Dottie, a talkative and inquisitive individual. The ambassador suggested that, if the party sought to speak with them, they might be able to ingratiate themselves with sweets, as all three hags had a weakness for such treats. He, like his companions, asked that the party not kill the hags if it could be avoided, suggesting that they may be willing to give the key to the four so long as they did not help Elizabeth. Taking his words under advisement, Flora created some cupcakes with her enchanted paint.

Following the path outlined by the drow, the party reached the hags’ workshop. Dottie responded to their knock at the door. She was delighted by their offering of cupcakes and invited them in, calling to her fellow hags to join them. The party spoke to Granny Agnes, explaining that they hoped to get to the floor below. Agnes concluded that they had been sent by Elizabeth, then, and the party admitted that she had attempted to enlist their help. The hags proposed that they instead kill Elizabeth, offering a number of beads that held within one use of a spell. When questioned about their feud with Elizabeth, the hags stated that she had been harrying them since the death of her brother, which had been an accident many hundreds of years hence. They couldn’t understand why she hadn’t gotten over it yet.

In hearing this, Oadicius could not help but sympathize with Elizabeth. However, Flora had been won over by the hags and Moreen, courting the favour of Torkan, was inclined to take on the vampire. Victor, wary of the potential consequences of angering the drow or incurring the wrath of any surviving hags who managed to escape, agreed with defeating the Elizabeth. Flora improvised a number of convincing battle wounds on the walk back to where Elizabeth waited, supporting her claim to Elizabeth that they had slain the hags. Once they were in a favourable position, the party attacked. Being caught off-guard, the vampire was unable to defend herself from the onslaught levied against her by Moreen, being slain in the light of Torkan’s Justice in a manner of seconds.

Among her possessions were the crystal ball they had been promised - that was revealed to be counterfeit when Victor fumbled catching the orb when Flora tossed it his way - a pair of letters, a diary, some jewelry, and a hand mirror. The hand mirror turned out to be the actual crystal ball, which Flora took for later use. The letters were both addressed to a Lady Leah Maratok of Paravel, one from Elizabeth herself and another from Eaton. He outlined a plan to make use of the upcoming festivities for the queen’s birthday to enact some scheme and requested her help, as his apprentice. In the pages of the diary, it became clear that Elizabeth had been acquainted with Eaton for many years, even before his rise to lichdom. Most surprisingly, in her most recent visit to Eaton, when she had been given the letter to Leah, she remarked that Bethany had been present. Once identified, the party learned that the jewelry was enchanted to allow someone to look through the eyes of the wearer, leading Victor to conclude that it had been meant for Leah.

With these new revelations settling in, the party returned to the hags for the key. When they informed the hags of their success, Dottie asked if she could take the diary, since it would be one of the last reminders of her erstwhile sister. The party was surprised by this information, though it did explain the feud between the two parties, since only one of the two children could find a place in the coven. They agreed and handed over the diary, with the request that they could keep a copy of its pages. It would likely prove important as evidence to prevent Eaton’s designs in Ludenwick from coming to fruition.

In the room where the barrier had been set, a small altar to Torkan rested, bathed in light. On the wall was an inset in the wall where the key fit perfectly, revealing the stairs to the penultimate floor of the temple. A pool of placid, knee-deep water had been erected, surrounded by stone benches. The pool’s floor was decorated with an image of Sydra and Uria embracing. Down the hall, the party encountered a stone door that not even Moreen could make budge. Across from the door was a short hall that led to a disused shrine. Kneeling at the altar was Silk, who had not been expecting to see the party but was willing to speak to them nonetheless. She told them a myth of the old gods, the tale of Sydra and Uria’s three children. One was the god of fear, who had disappeared along with the god of magic when they had attempted to harness time itself. The middle child was a god of anger who fought many battles with the god of justice before being struck down by a god of the nightwalkers. The youngest was a god of oaths, who was kept close in light of these tragedies and only met one other god - their grandmother, creator of Sydra and Torkan. As the story goes, Oath stayed behind when the gods left this world, wanting to walk among the people of this world.

None of the party, even those who worshipped the old gods as Oadicius did, had heard the tale before but the unspoken question of how Silk had learned it remained unasked. Instead, the party requested her help with removing the door that blocked their path, which she did with a gesture. On the other side, a death knight who Silk said once had been in Uria’s service stood guard, preventing Eaton’s enemies from advancing to the final floor of the temple where his apprentice guarded the portal. The party was able to defeat the death knight, though not without expending significant resources. Knowing that both a boneclaw and Eaton’s apprentice lurked below, the party decided to marshal their strength before engaging them. Rather than returning to Yldor’s tower, Silk offered the accommodations of her market, which the party accepted.

That night, Victor attempted to contact the creator of the cursed box that had pulled both Flora and himself under its spell. As it happened, Eaton had crafted the box as an obstacle for the party, though he hoped it had not caused them too much difficulty. Refusing to let the lich have the last word, the two traded remarks until Victor ran out of spell slots. In the process, Eaton revealed that Leah had once been a schoolmate of Eris’ before she had come under his tutelage. A little later, Eris, who had been informed that Bethany was still alive by Victor earlier in the day, replied that she was glad to hear it, though unfortunately her duties at court prevented her from pursuing the matter. Victor promised to recover her if they could.

Next
[Session 29](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2029.md)