---
date: 2018-06-20
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 5

Being the only route out of the Underdark, the Grey Passage was sufficiently well-traveled to make it relatively simple to hire a coach to the surface. Ian Fletcher was the driver of the coach the party hired and, after a brief stop to buy appropriate clothing for the sunlight ahead, they set off on what would likely be a seven-day journey. The Grey Passage itself split into two, one more trafficked that led to Azehard, and the other leading to Leysse, which was where Flora, Rei, and Victor needed to go. After a few hours of travel, their progress was stopped by a pair of myconids and their sovereign. After they’d cleared the way, the party didn’t get much farther before encountering two coaches who had collided, injuring one of the horses. Flora was able to heal the horse and allow everyone to continue onward and upward. When nightfall came, they set up camp and slept undisturbed. The second day was uneventful until two intellect devourers appeared. The battle was going well, with one of the creatures defeated, when the other successfully consumed Rei’s brain and took control of her body. Although Victor and Flora were able to kill it, Rei was dead. In the hopes that they would be able to find a priest on the surface to restore her to life, they put her body in the cart and Victor used his magic to freeze some ice around her to prevent her from decomposing entirely over the next several days.

The third day immediately started with an attack by two duregar, forcing the reduced party to deal with their ability to change size. Thanks to the cover offered by the coach, the two were able to defend against the attack. Later that day, the coach came to a sudden halt as a gelatinous cube had engulfed their horse. During the course of the fight, it attempted to do the safe to Flora, but they were able to repel and defeat it. That night, Victor began to cast an alarm spell before settling in for the night, to prevent the party from being attacked in their sleep. However, the fourth day was entirely peaceful, allowing Flora and Victor to talk (somewhat awkwardly) and the two were regaled by Ian’s horse stories. Flora also took the opportunity to flag down a cart going in the opposite direction to deliver a letter to Esker Tiyani, asking for his help in creating a bag of tricks. They were not so lucky on the fifth day, on which their morning was interrupted by an Azer attempting to set their coach ablaze. Victor was able to put the fire out before it spread from its first point of contact with the wood and the pair proceeded to defeat the Azer.

Past midnight, Flora and Victor were awoken by the alarm spell to see five giant bats swarming their camp. They were able to take out the creatures before stumbling back into bed for a short time. The sixth day was almost as quiet as the fourth, until a nothic, fixated on Flora’s tiara, attacked. Despite a failed constitution save on Victor’s part, they came out of the fight not too much worse for wear. On their last day wholly in the Grey Passage, the pair came across a quaggoth. Before it could eat them, however, Flora used her powers of suggestion to convince it to head off elsewhere. Their final camp was set upon by a group of grimlocks not long after they’d started to nod off for the night, and because of the alarm alerting them, the two dispatched their attackers and resumed their rest. In the afternoon of the eighth day, the coach trundled out under the light of the sun, which Victor hadn’t remembered being quite so bright and Flora had never seen at all. Their driver intended to stop at the city of Lanfeld to resupply before returning to the Underdark, so he was happy to take them along so they could find a sufficiently powerful cleric to resurrect Rei.

At the city’s chapter of the Church of Lathander, they met Lathandermander Clerikson, a cousin of the cleric they had asked to exorcise the Sailor Johnson doll, and Archbishop Kinnison, who was able to perform the resurrection spell. It was successful, though the party would need to stay in the city for a few days to allow Rei to recuperate. While Rei rested, Victor browsed the various bookstores of Lanfeld for any magical texts he could find and Flora received a response from Esker, telling her that she would need to craft her bag out of the skin of a gryphon. Once Rei was well enough to travel, the party purchased a horse and cart of their own to use on the overland journey to Savoy and prepared to embark shortly.

Next
[Session 06](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2006.md)