---
date: 2018-08-09
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 9

The party’s first order of business in Horgen was to prove to the town’s guard that they had succeeded in taking care of the hobgoblins who had been threatening travelers to the temple. Flora did so rather effectively by plopping down a bag full of severed ears, thoroughly grossing out the guards who quickly gave the party their money in exchange for them taking the bag out of their reception area. Now able to purchase more powerful weapons, the party did so before continuing on their way to Leysse by late afternoon. They did not get very far on their first day of travel but their second day was completely free of obstruction, allowing them to make good time before they needed to stop for the night. As the party approached the city of Lutherstadt, they passed the stretch of road on which they had encountered a roc back when they had only been a party of four. Sure enough, a large shadow passed over the cart and its malevolence was heralded by the three overturned carts in the road. The silhouette made a second swoop above them which was enough to make its intentions clear. Knowing that they would be no match for the creature, Flora cast a spell to allow the two horses pulling the cart to sprint beyond the roc’s hunting grounds. Once they reached the vicinity of the smaller villages of southwestern Savoy, their journey proved much less perilous and they spent the following four days of travel amusing themselves with music and conversation.

On the eighth day, they reached the main fork in the roads that divided the road into three paths, two of which led to Phentrin and one that led back to Leysse, where they had first emerged from the Underdark. As the traveled southwards, Victor spotted a dragon, inspiring some ineffective attempts at poetry, and the group encountered two fellow travelers who asked them for directions to Engelberg. Two more days passed without incident – they reached the border with Leysse on the second day and arrived in the capital city shared the province’s name by evening where Lord Mitore lived and reigned. The party noticed that they were only one of many new arrivals to the city and found that many of the inns in town had no vacancies. It transpired that the city of Leysse was celebrating the Festival of Candles, which attracted visitors from all across the kingdom. Eventually, the five were able to find accommodations that they found acceptable: Rei, Flora, and Jasper spent the night at The Charred Rat while Loïc and Victor stayed at another inn that took advantage of the scarcity of rooms to drive up the prices.

In the morning, they met in the common room on The Charred Rat to discuss their plan for dealing with Lore Mitore. Victor suggested that the ball that would be held as part of the festival was as good a time as any to gain entrance to Lord Mitore’s castle and negotiate with him. With their course of action decided, the party headed out to purchase clothes to match the dress code, including a dress that could smuggle in a kazoo for Flora, a pantsuit for Rei, and a tailored and armoured ensemble for Jasper, and arrived to the ball that night in style. The castle was lavishly decorated for the occasion and the dancefloor was packed with the kingdom’s nobility. Given the often-strained relations between Leysse and Savoy, Victor’s arrival did not go unnoticed. Fortunately for the party, the one who noticed them first was the Lady Willow, Lord Mitore’s daughter. Some time was spent exchanging introductions and small talk before she led the party out into the gardens to speak to them more privately.

Far from the prying eyes and ears of the party, she revealed that she and her entourage of nobles had come together in opposition of her father’s political sabotage, many of them having been victims of it just as the Lavenzas had been. Since their interests coincided, she proposed that they help in pulling off her plan-in-progress that night. At midnight, her father would be giving a speech, during which they would depose him with a small regiment of her own guards and mercenaries. The party agreed to take out some of the castle’s guards beforehand to give them the upper hand when the time came to strike and to provide an inciting incident in the form of a Crown of Madness spell cast by Flora in disguise to both create confusion that would aid the usurpers and to strength their claim that Lord Mitore was unfit to rule.

With an hour and a half until the chosen time to regroup, the party, joined now by Dame Moreen at Lady Willow’s recommendation, headed off to the barracks to take out the guards. Flora, Loïc, and Rei remained outside to keep an eye out for any approaching complications, along with Paracelsus who would allow Jasper, Moreen, and Victor to alert them to any trouble inside. With an invisibility spell in place for Jasper and Victor and Moreen’s stealthy entrance, the three were able to avoid catching the notice of any of the guards as they begun to scope the place out, hoping to potentially find out which guards were assigned to oversee the baron’s speech and target them. As they crossed back and forth through the unfamiliar halls, Moreen was caught by one of the guards and escorted out of the building and, although Jasper and Victor eventually found a listing of squad postings for the evening, there was no real way to know who was part of what squad. However, they had passed five guards in the dining hall who were doubtlessly on duty that night, so the two doubled back and ambushed the guards. It would have been a 2-to-1 fight since their allies were far enough outside that even when Paracelsus told them on Victor’s behalf to give them some backup they would have to navigate the barracks without any idea of its layout, but invisibility and Sleep gave them the element of surprise. By the time the six were all together, there were five bodies on the ground as the result of a fight that would no doubt draw the attention of the other guards on duty that night…

Next
[Session 10](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2010.md)