---
date: 2019-11-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 22

Bone had been twisted into walls and floors, forming a catacombs beneath the temple of Uria that wound away into darkness. The party opted to open the door to the west, finding two alhoons in the room beyond. The undead ilithids were formidable opponents, unleashing their arcane might on the adventurers and dealing significant damage to them. Once the alhoons had been dispatched, the party barricaded themselves in the room to allow a reprive from their delve into the depths of the temple to gather their strength. This proved to be a wise choice, as further down the hallway a sword wraith commander had marshalled a cohort of spawn of Kyuss to fend off intruders into the catacombs. She was unable to successfully repel the party, however, and they continued their westward path through the floor.

Not being intended for habitation by the living, the catacombs were marked by stark rooms that were empty of all but the most basic features of architecture - aside from the room the party entered next. An alhoon was sitting at a bench formed of bone, focused intently on his current alchemical project. His interest in the party was cursory and he posed no obstacle to them continuing through his space so long as they did not interrupt his work. In passing, the four could only determine that the concoction was likely intended to effect some form of transmutation and approaching to examine further would earn the ire of the alhoon. Aware that much of the floor awaited them, the party were keen to avoid unnecessary battles and left the alhoon to his work.

Heading south through the laboratory, the party found themselves in a room where three bone nagas made their lair. Their intimidating size was enough to give the party pause about engaging the creatures in battle but they proved to be less of a threat than the four had estimated, particularly once Flora began pulling creatures out of her Bag of Tricks to assist in their efforts.

Recalling the boundaries of the temple above, the party concluded that the structure was shorter in width than in length and reaching the end of the passages that led to the west would not take much longer. Bypassing the alhoon’s room, the party continued along that way until they encountered a bone devil. The fiend spoke to them in Infernal, which none of the party could translate, and it seemed as if combat was inevitable until Oadicius managed to make a quick yet respectful exit from the room that the devil accepted as sufficiently deferential.

At the extremity of the corridor, a lone door led to the northwest edge of the catacombs. Carved obsidian made a sharp contrast to the bone-white of the walls they had seen so far, marking the chamber as different. At the centre of the room, the rotting corpse of a crow lay motionless. The unnerving sight was enough to prevent the majority of the party from approaching the mangled remains but Victor, recognizing what he saw, was eager to examine the creature. The moment he touched the body, a psychic wave erupted from it as it shuddered to life. Its monstrous form made even getting close enough to the creature to return it to the grave a difficult task. Its fixation on Victor as the one who disturbed its rest posed further problems, as it continually knocked him into unconsciousness whenever it could get close enough to bite at him. With the help of one of Flora’s animals-polymorphed-crab and the concerted efforts of Oadicius and Moreen to slay the crow, the party was able to avoid any fatalities.

Having learned nothing from the last time he’d done so, Victor examined the corpse with an eye for its usefulness as parts for a second attempt at a flesh golem. Interestingly, though it was constructed with enough hallmarks of golemancy to clearly be a golem, it had no marks of being stitched together from multiple sources. Though it was a failed vessel, it was closer to fulfilling its purpose than the Creature had been.

Low on resources, the party made their way out of the temple and returned to Yldor’s watchtower. He conjured additional floors for the party to use for the night before returning to his work. In the morning, Flora confronted Victor about the vessel, noting its similarities to his failed creation and berating him for the mere consideration of creating another creature when his first attempt had killed his own brother. He averred that his work was none of her concern, leaving them at a stalemate that uneasily broke over breakfast. Flora, with feathers from the crow in hand, spoke to Yldor about what they had found in the temple.

He explained that the vessel had been the work of his deceased sister, who had created a succession of increasingly refined golems to house the soul of the dead god Korth, abandoning each unsatisfactory vessel in the temple. Flora’s vague implication that Victor had been making similar attempts to incarnate Korth was misunderstood by Yldor to be a project Eris had been working on. He expressed his surprise twofold at the fact that she had told Flora about the matter and that Eris had been going back to old, defunct methods long after they’d concluded that mortal flesh could not contain the god entire.

Once the morning’s preparations had been completed, the party traveled back to the temple, taking the path leading south in the catacombs that they had ignored during their first visit. A dragon skeleton lay sprawled across the floor of the first chamber in this direction, fortunately inanimate unlike many of the residents of the catacombs. Moreen took a few teeth from the dragon before the party moved on.

Their entrance into the next room interrupted a card game between two vampire spawn who, from their unruffled reaction, had killed many a wayward adventurer come to plunder the temple. Despite the mundanity of the situation, they would not claim the party as their next victims, as the group was able to defeat the vampires and divide the betting pool they had left on the table at the beginning of the battle amongst the four of them.

Next
[Session 23](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2023.md)