---
date: 2019-03-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 15

Despite two of the party’s members having donned heavy armour, the four managed to keep their heads above water long enough for the crew of the Greyhound to retrieve them from the seas. While aboard the Greyhound, Flora and Victor found that they were familiar with its captain - she was the earth genasi who had been with the thief Ezra the Fleet when they’d tangled on the streets of the docks district. Following a relatively awkward acknowledgement of this fact, the Greyhound rendezvoused with the Black Waltz to return the adventurers to Eris and Jasper, who had been awaiting their arrival. Eris congratulated them on a job well done, as though the daunting task of slaying five more boneclaws still lay before them, the loss of one of Eaton’s generals was not an insignificant blow to the lich’s plans. With no immediate tasks on their plate, Victor took the opportunity to bemoan the party’s deficit of funds.

After some discussion of the possibility of picking up odd jobs in the city, Flora recalled the nothic hoard from which the haunted doll that had given Amelia Bracegirdle so much trouble months prior had originated, suggesting that even a small portion of the magical items contained within would earn them a small fortune with relatively little trouble. As a further bonus, one of Eaton’s boneclaws had been stationed in the Stalagmite Mountain Chain and, ideally, they could kill two birds with one stone while they were there. As the evening wore on past midnight, the final day of the year begun and the celebration of Yulemas was folded in with celebrations of the navy’s victory over the ghost ship for essentially the entire day. During the festivities, the party sought out Eris and informed her of their intended course of action. She told them that she would have to part ways with them in Ludenwick, as she had business to attend to at court, and urged them to be careful but also that the Black Waltz was, as ever, at their disposal.

Four days of sailing brought the Waltz back to Ludenwick’s northern port, allowing the party to make some mundane and magical purchases before undertaking their expedition to the mountains. Although slowed by progress through the Aegulian Starshards, the ship conveyed the adventurers to their destination in only two short days. As they prepared their course in the rowboat, the party noted the presence of roaming legions of deathlocks and wights across much of the mountain chain and were careful to plan to make landfall a significant distance away and avoid any prominent centres of undead activity. However, once they’d located the cavern where the nothics were rumoured to live, the pretense of stealth was dropped in favour of a direct assault. A biting chill filled the air across the mountains but Jasper’s savvy allowed the party to minimize the amount of time spent at its mercy and brought them to the mouth of the cave in an hour. Seeing nothing lurking nearby, the party entered the cave brazenly, alerted only at the last second by Aiyah, the sentience within Flora’s dagger, of the ambush that lay in wait for them.

Cloaked by the deep shadows of the earth, a pair of deathlocks led two forces of six of their fellows, accompanied by the boneclaw. The party was outnumbered 2-to-1 but remained undaunted by the coming battle. Within only a few seconds, Jasper was able to kill the boneclaw with a flurry of pike thrusts, aided by a spell from Oadicius that infused his weapon with radiant power. Emboldened by such a victory, the party struck further into the cave, slowly thinning the numbers of the deathlocks. However, the deathlocks had the advantage of sheer numbers and, eventually, their relentless attacks downed Jasper, killing him before any of the party’s healing capabilities could intercede.

At first, the party planned to see the battle through to the end, knowing that they would not be able to restore Jasper to life until it was too late for a quick revival to have any effect, but as more and more deathlocks emerged from the unseen depths of the cave, they reconsidered their next steps. Thinking quickly, they formulated a plan to make their escape invisibly from the Stalagmite Mountains but executing it was not so easily done. Unless Moreen was able to strike the boneclaw with Torkan’s Justice, it would simply reform and their efforts would have been in vain. As such, the party’s three casters focused on battlefield control while Moreen headed in to the spot where the boneclaw’s corpse lay. Once she had recited the ritual and destroyed the boneclaw, Flora transformed herself into a huge giant crab. Sensing that the party was trying to escape, the deathlocks knocked Victor unconscious, forcing the rest of the party to begin the process of leaving without the benefit of invisibility until Oadicius could return him to consciousness, and just in time, as one of the deathlocks was in the process of casting a spell that would prevent Flora, who was acting as the vehicle for their escape, from moving.

A quick counterspell negated that potential problem and the party was able to avoid being struck by any more of the deathlocks’ spells before the invisibility spell took hold. Out of sight, the five made the much longer trek back to the location of their rowboat without Jasper’s expertise and rowed back to the ship. Rather than wait the two days needed to return to Ludenwick, the party teleported back to the University for Artifice in a bid to minimize the time Jasper spent in the clutches of death. At the city’s temple to Lathander, the party spoke with Erik Clerikson and pooled together funds from Jasper and Victor to donate to the church in exchange for the ritual to raise Jasper.

During the hour-long ritual, the party waited with bated breath for the return of their friend, which came at long last with the usual symptoms of lethargy that were the hallmark of a soul being severed from its body for more than a few minutes. Knowing that Jasper would need some time to recover, the party elected to take a week of downtime in the city, pursuing various personal tasks. Victor was forced to face the well-deserved wrath of his family after sending an air elemental courier home to request money to cover the sum taken from Jasper’s savings for his resurrection, as he had finally admitted to the danger he had been putting himself in to his family; Flora completed her bag of tricks and proceeded to be an absolute menace with it; Oadicius partook in clerical work with the priests of Lathander, making a small but appreciated impact on those he aided over the course of the week; Moreen embroiled herself in merchantry until she was able to purchase a set of plate armour.

Unlike the three other party members, who were occupied outside the apartment Victor, Flora, and Jasper shared, Victor was often in Jasper’s company while working on his latest alchemical project, leading him to the realization that the man’s resurrection had taken a psychological toll on him far more than it had on Rei. Growing increasingly concerned, Victor broached the subject with Jasper who haltingly explained that he had been struggling with a survivor’s guilt originating many years ago. In a bid to increase their kingdom’s borders, the armies of Aloria had attacked Jasper’s tribe, overwhelming them despite he and his people’s best efforts to fend them off. He had lost a number of good people during the fighting and, ever since, he’d felt that his survival was somehow wrong. Though he had difficulty finding the words, Victor extended an offer of accompanying him back to Aloria if he ever wanted to return there.

At the end of the week, the party was summoned to Rosewood Manor by Eris for lunch. She had been informed by Rachel of the specifics of what had happened and entreated the party to be more cautious in the future, reminding them that they need only ask and she would do what should could to keep them armed and armoured in the fights ahead. Deciding to fall back on their original plan to finance their purchases, the party searched around the city for mercenary work, with Flora breaking off to ask Esker if he had any ingredient requirements in the hopes that he would provide her a discount on his services as an artificer in exchange. Fortuitously, he was in the process of making a potion that would require either sahaguin scales or an explosive flower that grew in the soils of Nargothbel, though he would need to try the scales first as they were much easier to obtain. Meanwhile, the rest of the group consulted a notice board in Greengrass Hall, picking up a request from one of the city’s bard colleges to deal with a potential infestation. When they arrived, a receptionist filled them in on what was known about the possible threat, which was essentially nothing at all, and wished them luck as they descended into the disused basement of the college. Below, the party came face-to-face with a swarm of cranium rabbits which had rushed out of hiding to attack them as they opened the first storage room door.

Next
[Session 16](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2016.md)