---
date: 2019-03-31
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 18

With Oadicius at the helm, the party made their way to the scene of the crime. A lonely warehouse stood in a cluster of fisheries which had seen better days, though the abandoned area was now occupied by a contingent of the city’s guards. A perimeter had been set up to prevent any unauthorized personnel from entering the warehouse, with a clearly bored guard manning the checkpoint. Oadicius invoked his credentials as a cleric to get himself and the party in to perform a spell to speak with the soul of the victim from beyond the grave and to do some investigation of their own. Inside, the five were met with the grisly sight of a firbolg man whose throat had been slit and whose eyes had been removed splayed out in a summoning circle.

Over the course of the investigation, Oadicius was able to determine that the ritual itself had been botched but that provided little comfort that the cult’s activities had been thwarted in any meaningful respect. Contacting the man’s spirit revealed that he had been attacked by four cultists, one of whom had been notably shorter than their companions, but he had no insight into their motives for doing so. Jasper, meanwhile, had succeeded in picking up the attackers’ trail and led the rest of the party up by way of a ladder onto the rooves. An hour of painstaking tracking took the group to a back alley in Hellig Square where the bloody tracks petered out. However, the grate providing access to Ludenwick’s sewer system had clearly been disturbed and hastily replaced. Moreen and Victor were not keen to wade through sewage but there was no avoiding it without abandoning the chase.

Deep within the bowels of the city, the only indication of the correct paths to follow came from symbols scrawled in paint on the walls by Ludenwick’s ne’erdowells. From among the various symbols, the party chose to take the offshoot marked with a skull and spine, concluding that it was most likely to lead to the headquarters of the cult. Several unpleasant hours passed as the party treked across the city, until they reached a dead end holding another manhole. The five emerged in a storage room that offered two potential ways forward along the north wall. Having not yet encountered any cultists, the party moved through the maze of storage rooms cautiously. Eventually, they came to a locked door. A paucity of any covert ways of bypassing the lock resulted in Moreen breaking down the door to reveal five cultists standing behind it. The fanatics were low-ranking members of the cult and had little in the way of defense against a party of armed adventurers; all but one of them were slain and, when the final cultist standing made to run, he was knocked unconscious for questioning.

The cultist awoke, manacled and surrounded by the party. They questioned him on the nature of the cult, which he told them was dedicated to the archdevil Zariel, and about the details of the murder perpetrated the previous night. As a mere guardsman, he was not privy to the schemes of the cult and, even if he could answer their questions, he was unlikely to do so when he knew all that awaited him was a swift death at the hands of the party or a slow death in prison. The party attempted to convince him to lead them to the inner sanctums of the cult with little success and, at a clear impasse, they dispatched him.

In the room to the east, the party came face-to-face with a barlgura and its summoner. Jasper sent the demon back to the Abyss within seconds, demonstrating capabilities that the “wizard” rightly assessed as posing a threat greater than she could withstand alone. As she fled, she re-summoned the barlgura to stall the party. Now angered by his swift defeat, the barlgura put up a greater resistance against the party but was felled once more. Following the “wizard”, the party walked right into a wall of flames that erupted through the doorway. In the fleeting moments before the fire filled the passage, the party caught a glimpse of two other “wizard”s. Seeing another door to the south that they could only hope would lead around to the room the “wizard”s had barricaded themselves, the party launched a two-pronged attack to take out the “wizard”s: heedless of the danger it posed, Jasper barreled through the flames to attack the caster of the spell, causing them to falter and lose control of the magic, while Moreen circled around to fight the “wizard” who had thrown the barlgura in the party’s path. Despite Jasper being banished to another plane, the party was able to emerge victorious against the “wizard”s and move foward. A northwestern room had been converted into a ceremonial chamber to hold religious observances and currently held an erinyes and the retreating form of another “wizard”.

Unlike the barlgura, the erinyes was a formidable foe, wielding both magic and martial force to keep the party at bay. She dealt significant damage to the party, even knocking Victor unconscious, before she was defeated. Once they were out of active combat, the party took some time to heal their wounds and take stock of their remaining resources before continuing down the way they had seen the cultist who had summoned the erinyes flee. They passed through a forge, where work on crafting various arms and armaments had been hastily abandoned, as well as two alchemical labs with healing potions still set to brew. It was becoming increasingly clear to the five adventurers that the cult was preparing for some type of armed conflict, likely taking advantage of the instability caused by Eaton’s influence over the Underdark to further some dark agenda.

Before they could speculate on the specifics of these plans, the party encountered a familiar face within the heart of the cult’s headquarters - Yulicese Jamwant. Flora and Victor were surprised to see their erstwhile ally nearly a year after he had disappeared from the Errant Seeker. Oadicius was equally surprised to see the brother he had declared his intention to seek out here of all places and stepped forward to speak with him. But, after little more than a greeting, Yulicese declared that it was time for the two of them to be going and, with his brother in tow, vanished before the party’s very eyes.

Next
[Session 19](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2019.md)