---
date: 2019-03-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 16

The swarm posed no great threat to the party, as they were able to take it out before it could wield its magic against them. Flora recalled, however, that cranium rabbits were often the creations of illithids, prompting the group to keep their guards up nonetheless. Beyond the storage room lay an old abandoned classroom filled with graffitied desks that reminded Flora of her college days. The reminiscing was interrupted by the company they found in the adjoining weapons room, namely a group of six nothics attempting to gather as many of the enchanted weapons as they could. Although the sheer number of nothics posed a threat to the party, they were able to defeat them without too much trouble. On the way out, Flora yoinked an enchanted rapier from the weapon racks to replace her old weapon, but that replacement didn’t last long. A sitting room lined with portraits of various former administrators of the college held a portrait of a woman which animated in her direction and politely warned her that stealing would be detrimental to her health.

As Flora returned the rapier, the rest of the party questioned the woman in the portrait on her magical prowess. A pair of nothics, still gripping their magical finds, which lay dead in a corner of the room served as sufficient evidence that she was quite capable of following through on her threat. Down one of the hallways attached to the sitting room the group found a room containing a dusty organ. Struck by a fit of inspiration despite having no formal training with the instrument, Flora gave a decent performance and felt a little luckier from that point on. To the east, another hallway split into two, a longer passage that the party opted to explore later in favour of an empty room containing only a single nothic. While the party charged in to battle it, Victor trailed behind far enough to glimpse a horrible creature lumbering toward them at the other end of the hallway they’d passed up. Hearing the sound of spellcasting, Oadicius and Moreen joined Victor in defeating the spawn of the Shadowfel while Flora finished off the nothic. In an unfortunate moment of the battle, Moreen’s shoulder was pierced by one of the demon’s harpoon-like arms and dragged toward it through Oadicius’ wall of fire, compounding the damage the attack inflicted on her, but her proximity to it ultimately allowed her to slay the creature.

After taking a brief rest to tend to Moreen’s injuries, the party continued down the hall, finding a room containing only a table decorated with a vase. Finding this peculiar, Flora picked up the vase, revealing in the process that it had been holding down a pressure plate that opened a secret passage to another former classroom. Several suitcases littered the floor, containing various instruments, clothing, a potion, and a couple of magic items. Moreen picked up the Sending Stones and Flora availed herself of a pot of Nolzur’s Marvelous Pigment. Counting to the south, the party entered into a pair of studio rooms, one of which contained a nothic that snarled at them to keep away from its finds before attacking. Once it had been slain, the party prized a Pearl of Power from its grasp. At the utmost southern end of the basement, the group found a two-sectioned room where two more swarms of cranium rabbits had made their warrens in the wall. When unable to dominate any of the party’s wills, they fled into these holes. Oadicius was able to manoeuvre a wall of fire inside the wall to kill the swarms but in the process burned down some essential structural supports, causing the wall to collapse on him and Flora. Although it inflicted some harm on the two of them, between a stoneshape spell and some healing magic, the damage was mostly mitigated.

Back in the first classroom the party had passed through, they followed a branch of doors and hallways that they hadn’t yet gone through to him the final swarm of cranium rabbits and exterminate it, leaving the basement vermin-free. Upstairs, they collected the posted reward from the receptionist and decided to follow up on another of the requests that had been posted on the notice board. This one was an outsourced job defeating a rogue wizard who had made his lair in the city. Further details were to be given at a tavern located in the district. At one of the back tables, a grizzled mercenary filled them in on the details. He had tracked the wizard to a tannery in Fogtown and advised the party against going toe-to-toe with him in anything less than best shape. Heeding his words, the party waited until the following day to pursue the wizard.

Descending into the depths of the tannery with Paracelsus scouting ahead, the party quickly fell afoul of traps both mundane and magical, getting things off to a less-than-ideal start. Alerted by his defensive countermeasures activating, the wizard emerged from where he had been holed up and blasted the part with a lightning bolt. Before the party could do much to repay the pain in kind, he used magic of such a magnitude that the party had not yet seen to stop time itself, trigger a powerful fireball, and flee to safety. All but Moreen were knocked unconscious by the flames but between potions and spell scrolls, she and each successively revived party member were able to patch the group up enough to mount a counterattack. Using the pigment she had taken from the bard college, Flora painted a door into the archmage’s bedroom and the party unleashed their most powerful spells on him, eventually getting the better of him. Flora took on his form and gained access to his knowledge of any remaining traps, allowing the party to avoid them as they gathered the spoils of their victory. A number of magic items, potions, and components served as even more of a reward than the payment they received from the mercenary when they reported back.

Having made a decent amount of gold from freelance adventuring, the party decided to tackle Esker’s request for sahaguin scales the next day. Oadicius, who grew up near the shores of Iron Haven, had a good idea of where in the Shattered Sea they might find the nesting grounds of sahaguin. Taking a rented dinghy out from the harbours of Iron Haven, they were able to find a group of sahaguin swimming alongside their boat after a few hours of sailing. Coming off the heels of their encounter with the archmage of Fogtown, the sahaguin stood little chance against the party and Flora was able to return later that day with several buckets of sahaguin scales. Esker was grateful, if a little grossed out, and provided her a space in the university’s labs to work on her next project. She quickly decided on fashioning bracers of archery and got to work on some preliminary construction for the item. As she did, Esker offered his services to the party to modify their existing gear and Oadicius picked up a recipe for a bag of holding from him.

With the intention of slaying another of Eaton’s boneclaw generals in mind, combined with the convenient intersection of picking up explosive flowers from Nargothbel for any future creations Esker might make while they were in the area, the party set off in the Black Waltz for the drow city. The journey would be a six-day affair under normal circumstances but that length was extended on the second day of travel by an encounter with a trio of water elementals. The elementals claimed that they were the masters of this stretch of the sea and demanded that the ship detour around their territory. As their business in Nargothbel was not time-sensitive and they were not keen to start a battle that might damage the ship over such a trivial matter, the party agreed to circumnavigate the claimed area, though it added an additional day to their trip.

Those efforts to avoid a damaging encounter for the ship were ironically nullified the very next day when the boat was rocked by a sizeable hole being punched in the hull. Maven, accompanied by Oadicius, headed down to the engine room to ensure that any harm that had been done to the ship did not impact their engine. It was intact for the time being, but the continuing source of the disturbance could be seen through the hole it had torn in the floorboards - one very belligerent shark which Oadicius and Maven were able to take down in tandem. Left only with the task of repairing the hole, the two patched it with creation spells until they were satisfied with its stability before returning abovedeck to inform Rachel that they were fit to sail once more.

Next
[Session 17](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2017.md)