---
date: 2019-01-13
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 12

After an evening of crafting and study, there came a knock at the door of Victor’s rented room in Brinegrave Coast - Eris had arrived, bringing with her Jasper. She explained that she had received a sending from Oscar Milne, making it clear that he had indeed come across Jasper on the surface and made good on his promise to teleport him to Ludenwick. Flora and Victor were surprised, but pleasantly, to see him again after nearly a month apart and sent for Moreen and Loïc so that they could discuss their plans for the following day together with all members of the party present. As they waited for the two to arrive, Victor caught Jasper up on recent events in the Underdark and their potential next destinations, after having rather unceremoniously dropped the news that they were in opposition to a lich on him while welcoming him back. Once the group was all assembled and informed, they spent some time debating what their next step should be. Recovering the knowledge of the Ritual of Deathbane would be most straightforward, as they had a solid destination, but the blade itself would be required to make any use of it. Another option was to pursue the potential lead of a nothic’s lair that Victor and Flora had picked up during their solo adventures, as if they were arming themselves against Eaton, having access to an accumulated hoard of magic items wouldn’t go amiss. After weighing the pros and cons, they decided to sail to Sen first, as the sword, wherever it lay hidden, would be useless for their purposes without the power of the ritual.

In the morning, the five boarded the Black Waltz, spending a little time before embarking introducing Jasper to the features and complement of the vessel. Rachel told them that the Waltz could only take them as far as the edge of Dragonsclaw Point before the Shattered Sea grew too crowded with fragments of the former landmass of Ludenwick for larger ships to pass through, meaning they would need to travel by rowboat in order to reach Sen. So reconciled, they chartered their course, enjoying several days of undisturbed travel along the well-patrolled coast of the city. Of course, it was only the threat of fire from Ludenwick’s military that kept potential marauders at bay, and as soon as the Black Waltz had passed beyond this protection, they were greeted by a hail of arrows from an opportunistic drow ship. The ensuing battle was relatively brief but was notable in that Jasper demonstrated some of the new tricks he had picked up in his absence, namely the ability to cast magic.

A day later, the Waltz dropped anchor at the outmost extremity of the Shattered Sea and the party parted ways with the rest of the crew, beginning the slow task of navigating through the islets that barred the approach of larger more ambitious expeditionary forces. A full day’s effort took them beyond to the small cluster of islands on the northwestern edge of the Underdark. An additional three took them by the drow cities of Ylda and Dorn, as well as the expansive bog of Luo, broken only by a solitary lighthouse and cottage shedding light on their voyage and illuminating the forms of three woman who watched them silently as they passed. The island of Sen was characterized by rolling hills barren of flourishing fauna, small caves etched into the earth, and the ruins of small settlements. With Jasper in the lead, they picked their way through the wilderness, noting many sets of conflicting tracks left by those who had arrived before them, including a set that appeared to belong to a giant of some description. That night, the identity of the giant was made known to them as a fomorian attacked Flora during her watch. Groggily, the rest of the party awoke to fend it off so that they could benefit from what little sleep they could before the sun rose.

Flora took over navigational duties from Jasper in the morning, leading the party to a temple, long abandoned like the rest of the island’s buildings and plain in appearance other than the detailing on its entrance carved to resemble a rising sun. Inside, the main hall offered a set of double doors and a more humble single door that led to the east. Through the double doors was what had once been the main area of worship, marked by pews, a pulpit, and two statues: one depicting a man holding the sun and the other a woman holding the moon. A book lay open on the pulpit, weathered by age but still readable, though its writing was archaic enough to make it clear that no one had attended services here in at least a century. To the east was a hallway lined with bookshelves whose contents were indecipherable, ending on a study. With a keen eye, Flora found among the papers strewn across the desk a slip of paper that detailed the means of opening a secret passage hidden behind a bookshelf and the means to deactivate a glyph of warding that had been cast on it to prevent intruders from getting by. The instructions held true and the party found themselves in a room filled with chests and a spiral staircase leading into the depths below. The chests, after they had been smashed open by Moreen to ensure they were not mimics, held little of note beside a set of five painted china figures that Victor deduced were icons of the most famous incarnations of the god Torkan, to whom the temple was dedicated.

Beneath, in the catacombs, the remains of both common folk and heroes of the god were entombed, some of which were more restful than others; the animate corpse of the dwarven champion to the west of where they had entered attacked them on sight but the remains of the champion laid to rest to the south of his lay quiet. Most of the coffins stayed shut, allowing the party to pick up a few items of note from the dead without any resistance, until they reached the final tomb, where three sword wraiths unleashed their fury. In the eastern half of the catacombs, more modest burials had been made and no dead stirred, though two thieves who had struggled to the death over a prize they had robbed from the graves and four corpses piled together a heap were fresher additions to the ossuary. Noting the strange symbol scratched in blood above the heap, Flora cast a spell to awaken one of the dead to question it on the subject. The spirit revealed that it was Nisma’s brand, a name that Victor recognized from his research into the ancient gods of the Underdark, and offered some warnings about the dangers that lurked below.

The final two rooms on this floor were mirrors of each other, housing five coffins each and a hatch leading below, though only one had a complete tunnel dug through the earth to a deeper floor. In the lower room, two doors emblazoned with the sun and the moon stood before them, with the dust that coated the temple noticeably disturbed in their vicinities. Opting to take the sun door first, the party found a chamber that held the chilling sight of cages containing corpses of three humanoids and an iron maiden and, across the hall, a room where the party’s entrance had interrupted two drow guards who had been playing cards - presumably part of the threat below of which the spirit had forewarned them.

Once they had slain the guards, Flora was able to take on the form of one of the two, gaining his knowledge of several points of interest on this level of the temple, such as a room that the drow had not been able to enter yet, one that had been sealed to contain mimics and monsters, and the place a drow priestess had adopted as her workshop. She also learned that the ladder the party had taken to this level had been surrounded with an alarm spell and hence the priestess would already know that they had trespassed. Making use of the disguise, Flora was able to walk right in to the priestess’ room under the pretense that she had captured Victor and allow the two of them, as well as the rest of the party stationed just outside the door, to surprise and take her out within seconds. Once the ambush was over, the group was able to get a look at what she had been sequestered to accomplish - the summoning of a greater demon from the depths of the Abyss, though fortunately the ritual had not been completed before the party had entered.

Next
[Session 13](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2013.md)