---
date: 2020-02-18
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 26

A strange sight awaited them on this floor, a number of barbed devils wielding chisels were working to carve some design into the splintered tile that covered the floor. An orthon was overseeing their work, taking note of the party’s appearance. He addressed them in Infernal but none among the party was familiar enough with the language to be fluent. When it became apparent that they were unable to comprehend his words, one of the barbed devils used telepathy to bridge the gap. Moreen iterated that the party intended only to progress deeper into the temple and had no quarrel with them but the devil insisted that they couldn’t be allowed to pass through an active construction area without proper permission.

With no other options available to them, the party headed north and entered into a makeshift office. A rakshasa stood behind the desk, reprimanding a pair of onis. In one corner of the room, a barbed devil acted as secretary. The rakshasa was displeased at being interrupted, voice dripping with annoyance as she dismissed the onis to hold an audience with the party. Once more, they explained their intentions. She was not inclined to allow them through without negotiations, as they were engaged in delicate work, but she was more than happy to make a deal. A subtle suggestion spell was laced under her words, bringing Victor under her sway. Taking this as a hostile action, negotiations immediately broke down into a fight.

With reinforcements from among the workers, the rakshasa put up a significant fight, though she was soon returned to her home plane by Oadicius and Moreen, who did not need to use the magic that she easily shrugged off to engage her in battle. A cursory glance through the papers on her desk revealed that the devils had been under contract with Silk to restore the mosaics on this floor for the forthcoming expansion of her market. A quick sending to Silk confirmed that this was merely a setback for her, even if she would prefer they don’t disrupt their work when she returned them to this plane.

Only a handful of workers remained, allowing the party to head deeper into the floor. Several of the floor’s smaller rooms had been restored, revealing symbols that Moreen and Victor discerned as iconography of several of the Forgotten Gods. Uria’s sigil was to be expected, as Bonehaven had been dedicated to her worship, and Sydra’s followed naturally from their status as spouses. However, the presence of a depiction of Korth was surprising, given the fact that Uria was responsible for its ultimate fate.

At the southernmost end of the floor lay a room where the tile had been torn up, leaving the hewn stone beneath exposed. The presence of a number of chairs scattered around the room implied that it had been used as an area for the workers to take breaks. The party decided to use it for that purpose, taking an hour to recover from their encounter with the rakshasa. As the rest of the group prepared for the dangers that lay ahead, Moreen found herself unable to get any meaningful rest. Living nightmares sprung up in the corner of her eye each time she attempted to relax, the result of a lingering curse of laid on her by the rakshasa’s touch. Neither Oadicius nor Victor had prepared an cursebreaking spells for the day’s delve, meaning they would need to wait until they returned to Yldor’s tower to deal with the curse.

Through the main mosaic room, a door to the west led to a scene that was becoming commonplace. One of the failed vessels of Korth sat motionless in the room, eyes glassy as though it had not yet been activated. A rakshasa stood guard at the other end of the room, though unlike their fellow fiend, they did not seem to have any interest in speaking to the adventurers. Unlike the previous vessels, this construct was made of not of flesh and bone but of metal, a fact betrayed by the flashes of light that glinted off its surface beneath the coat of feathers. The feathers themselves were coated in a viscous oil, lending an uncanny sheen to the hulking creation.

Knowing that the way forward could only be beyond the vessel and its guard, the party attacked before the crow could snap up to ambush them as its predecessors had done. The oily coating on the vessel’s feathers absorbed much of the brunt of the party’s spells and weaponry, making it an arduous task to cut through its defenses. To make matters worse, the creature succeeded in wresting Torkan’s Justice from Moreen’s grasp and swallowing it, forcing her to fall back on less potent weapons. Nonetheless, once the rakshasa was defeated, the party could concentrate all their efforts on the vessel. They burned through the majority of their remaining resources, as the effectiveness of anything they tried was halved, but before long the vessel was destroyed.

Having harvested what they could from its remains – including a vial of the slick substance that had covered its body – the party decided to head back to the sanctuary of Yldor’s hospitality for the day. As had become typical, Flora offered him some of what they had salvaged from the vessel, which he accepted gratefully. He removed the curse that had Moreen in its grasp before returning to the privacy of his study.

After a night’s rest, the four were back to their full capabilities. As the way forward was clear, the party descended to the next level of the temple. The clear architecture of the prior floors begun to break down as they moved down the stairs, leading to a small cavern that appeared naturally formed rather than constructed. At the back of the alcove stood an altar made of copper, long rusted to a sickly green. No clear means of continuing to down could be seen, leaving the altar as their only destination. As the party drew near, the radiant form of an angel was revealed. He was the planatar Gadreel and had been placed here by Uria to prevent those who were not worthy of reaching its innermost sanctums from proceeding.

His first test was of the party’s bonds. Under the effects of a spell that required their honesty, he asked each of the party in turn to reveal their honest feelings toward one other. Flora, in her usual careless way, said that she appreciated Oadicius for helping them kill Yulicese and for making her no longer the only one responsible for keeping the party alive. Oadicius made it clear that he saw much of the arrogance in Victor that he had seen in Yulicese and that he was set on preventing him from meeting the same end. Victor acknowledged Moreen’s obvious skill with a blade and her measured consideration of her actions. Moreen, with a certain amount of prevarication, admitted that though Flora was often the embodiment of chaos, she believed her heart was in the right place.

Satisfied with their responses, Gadreel then asked for each to divulge a secret that they had kept from the rest of their companions. Moreen told them of her family’s disgraced status, leading to the loss of their nobility and wealth. Victor, who had been keeping much from all three of them, admitted that he had not arranged to purchase an item for Flora from Ezra during their last meeting. Flora, seeing right through his vague admission of guilt, said sardonically that she was sure it wouldn’t be anything detrimental to them. Oadicius said that until he encountered the party he had never known true friendship. Flora confessed that when she had found the man who killed her brother she had exacted her revenge even knowing that he had a family.

Though the strain on the bonds they had forged had been plainly exposed in just how little the party were honest with each other, Gadreel had no intention of letting them address those weaknesses yet. He had one final test of their worthiness – a test of their strength in battle, with himself as their opponent.

Next
[Session 27](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2027.md)