---
date: 2018-05-23
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 2

Fighting one last battle against two sea spawns who attempted an aft boarding of the Seeker, the party docked safely at Taft Island. Upon their arrival Captain Berensen explained that Eris’ cousin Bethany Taft was, in fact, the mayor of the settlement on the island. It did not bode well when their path to the town hall was blocked by protesters, but the mayor received them in her office. The story of her father’s transformation into a lich was difficult to accept, but she knew her cousin would not wish for her to come to Ludenwick for hearsay. Nonetheless, she informed the party that she could not leave with the town in its current state and explained the reasoning behind the protests outside. A new law had been passed to prevent human trafficking and smuggling of dark magic items via the Grey Passage between the surface and the Underdark, increasing tariffs in the process. The people outside were acting on the frustrations of the head of the Adventurer’s Guild, Oscar Milne, who felt greatly affected by the new tariffs. Flora and Victor offered to make negotiations on her behalf so that she could return to Ludenwick, which Bethany would be happy to do once things were settled. After a few trips back and forth and some careful negotiations by Flora, the matter was settled with a reduction in tariffs placed on the activities of the Adventurer’s Guild and 8 magic items.

The only remaining problem was that one of the requested items, the Veiled Cloak of the Bat, had been stolen several months ago. The main suspect was a thief by the name Ezra the Fleet, who the city guard had been thus far unsuccessful in tracking down. Resolved to find the item, the party set off to speak with the member of the city guard who had been put on the case, being given funds by the mayor to potentially purchase back the cloak in case it had already been sold. The guard gave the pair several taverns which Ezra was known to visit, along with a tiefling and an earth genasi of their acquaintance. At the second of these taverns, Brody’s, they came across the trio. Deciding to follow them out of the tavern under the effects of disguise self and invisibility spells, the two intended to speak with Ezra about the cloak.

Despite being caught once by Ezra’s keen perception, they were able to engineer a plan in which Victor would act as bait for a staged theft that would move them off the main road and into a secluded area where Flora could use her abilities as a whisper bard to corner them into answering their questions. Surprisingly, the party was able to pull it off without too much going wrong, though they certainly damaged their chances of ever getting on the good side of a thief in the Underdark by threatening Ezra.

They revealed that they had sold the cloak a few months ago to Baroness Malkova of Bornhold, who was a collector of magical items who occasionally hired Ezra to procure such items. Sailing to Bornhold after the cloak was uneventful and, once they arrived at the Baroness’ castle, Victor was able to leverage an old connection between his mother and the Baroness to get a look at her collection. For the price of 800 gold, they were successful in retrieving the cloak and returned to Taft Island to present it to the mayor. With all the complications preventing her from leaving the island taken care of, she agreed to set off to Ludenwick a day later. The return trip was marked by a strange dream of crows and a battle with a sea hag, but was otherwise smooth sailing. The cousins reunited and Eris thanked the party again for their work, inviting them to return to Rosewood Manor after she had time to catch up with her cousin, suggesting that she would likely have another task for them.

Next
[Session 03](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2003.md)