---
date: 2019-02-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 14

The party now had a powerful new weapon in their possession, one with the potential to completely turn the tides in the struggle against Eaton. Seeing no reason to linger in the temple now that they had obtained the blade they’d sought, the party made bade farewell to Tali and her fellow priests. However, she was not the only one they would be parting ways with - Loïc had received a message via sending that required his immediate departure to the Surface. As he took his leave from the party, a knock resounded at the door. At Tali’s questioning, the visitor revealed that his name was Oadicius and he came bearing a relic. Sealed in a safe with several gemstone keys, the relic was taken with gratitude by Tali, who paid a tidy sum for its delivery. She made light conversation with the genasi, asking what he planned to do next and suggesting he make his way back across the isle with the party, as they were heading in the same direction and there would be safety to be found in numbers. The four adventurers were amenable and so together the group began the trek back to the spot where the Black Waltz awaited their return.

Before they could rendezvous with the ship, they were ambushed by a drow, who within the span of her first swing toward Flora, made it clear that she was no ordinary opponent. One slash nearly downed the bard and she was able to hold her own against five other combatants, aided by a powerful magic that allowed her to create areas of magically-induced darkness and expand them to bolster her attacks. Her accomplice, a gunslinger who was taking potshots at the party from his position just at the crest of the nearby hills. Several members of the party were nearly killed by her vicious attacks, saved only by Oadicius’ curative abilities. Eventually, the five were able to turn the tables, but just as the killing blow was struck, she was teleported away by an earlier contingency. Turning their attentions to the gunslinger, Flora invoked the power of the Doss Lute to transform Oadicius into a giant ape and, though he too attempted to turn darkness to his will, they made quick work of him. Like his partner-in-crime, he vanished before the final strike could wreak its full damage on him.

Recognizing that the power of such spells was well beyond them at this point, the party was perturbed by the encounter but decided to delay investigating the matter until they had finished their business with the trio of sea hags beyond the Shattered Sea. Oadicius took the offer of passage on the Black Waltz and explained that his brother was none other than Yulicese, whom Victor and Flora had encountered so many months ago when they had answered Eris’ advertisement. These faint ties were strengthened by the fact that he had nearly single-handedly kept them from death’s door in the previous battle, and the party numbered five once again.

On the island of Luo, the three ever-prescient sea hags awaited the party’s arrival. With a toothy smile, Granny Cassandra invited them inside the lighthouse they called home, which was an uncomfortable fit for eight people given that it normal housed only three. Once proof of completion of the tasks they’d been set had been handed over, the coven made good on their promise. Through the gilded frame of a mirror, the hags showed the party the locations of Eaton’s six boneclaw generals: one aboard the ghost ship that had sunk the Seeker, two patrolling a temple to Uria on the island of Epiphora, one skulking through the ruins of Nargothbel, one traversing the Stalagmite Mountain Chain, and one at the lich’s side. They further divulged that Uria’s desecrated temple was the site at which Eaton worked the foul magics necessary to create his deathlocks and, lastly, that Eaton’s current goal was to accomplish the summoning a creature known as a nightwalker from beyond this dimension, though he was nowhere near close to completing it at present. Thankful for the information but not inclined to spend more time at the mercy of the hags, the party departed for Ludenwick to share what they had learned with Eris.

As the party consulted with her about the progression of their own plans, a shortcut to understanding the text of the Ritual of Deathbane presented itself in the form of Oadicius’ familiarity with the language. Though he could not touch the book, he did not need to in order to read it as Eris or Victor would. He read aloud the instructions for its use, arming the party with the final piece of information they needed to pursue the boneclaws in earnest.

With revenge on the minds of Rachel and her crew, the first target was selected to be the captain of the ghost ship. A friend of Rachel, captain of the Greyhound, and several of Ludenwick’s military vessels would be lending their firepower to the attack, and with Torkan’s Justice in Moreen’s possession, it was simply a matter of boarding the ship and slaying its crew. The crew and passengers of the Waltz passed the eight-day journey in quiet anticipation, preparation, and (in Oadicius and Victor’s case) alchemical negotiations. Past the limits of Ludenwick’s military patrol line, a deep fog roiled across the sea, slowing the process of navigation but ultimately failing to hide the ghost ship from the fleet. The party were joined by Maven, Oberon, Rei, and Captain Berensen herself as they stormed the upper deck of the ghost ship.

Its primary crew consisted of ghouls, skeletons, and zombies which fell easily enough before the party but the boneclaw and deathlock were not so easily dispatched. The ship itself seemed to be working against them too, as intermittently segments of it became incorporeal, threatening to plummet the combatants into the deck below. Despite bringing all their powers to bear against the party, the crew of the ghost ship was slain and the boneclaw permanently destroyed by the invocation of the ritual as Moreen stabbed the blade into its defeated form. However, the very moment to final ghoul was dispatched, the very wood beneath the group’s feet vanished, plunging the boarding party into the waves of the unforgiving Dark Seas below…

Next
[Session 15](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2015.md)