---
date: 2018-07-25
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 8

The outset of their journey to Leysse was unmarred by any enemies, granting the party one more day of peace after the past action-packed few. A majority of their second day of travel was similarly quiet - until the party spotted a troll strolling down the main road, a wolf in each hand, snacking on them as it went. Having wolf corpses lobbed at the group was rather harrowing, though they were able to down the troll after a few rounds of combat. However, none of the five had encountered trolls before and were unaware of their regenerative abilities until the troll got to its feet and started swinging. Fortunately, although none of the party had any magical sources of fire, Victor’s earlier use of the lightning bolt spell set a long stretch of grass alight and Jasper was able to knock the troll out again and drag it into the flame. With the road clear once more, they continued on their way west toward Grauerstadt.

Partway through the following day’s walk, they reached a fork in the road that led down toward the ruins Jasper had been arrested for trespassing upon, which was the last place he had seen the other members of his band of mercenaries. With the rest of the group’s assent, they diverted on their way so he could pick up their trail and gather some idea of where they had gone. The five reached the ruined temple early the next morning. It was clear that, at one point, this place had been splendid and expansive, but those days were long past. Jasper was able to discern that his group had fled into the wood after he was taken by the guard.

A few more hours took them to the edge of the Dornblüte forest, which was carefully patrolled by a detail of elves. Loïc spoke to them on the group’s behalf, asking if they had seen any humans passing through in the last few weeks. The elves remembered the group, whom they had escorted through to the other side of the wood near Horgen once they had pled sanctuary. Since the five were due to pass Horgen on their way to Leysse, Jasper could ask around the city when they arrived. With nightfall nearly fallen, the party made camp by the treeline and resolved to return to the main road over the course of the next day.

Their remaining two days of transit were uninterrupted and, a week after they’d left Lucerne Manor, they arrived in Grauerstadt. The party rented rooms at an inn and took a day off from their journey to rest, restock, send letters, and seek out magical scrolls and magical pikes with little luck. Not far outside the city gates the next morning, they were nearly ambushed by three displacer beasts. Their illusory magic made them formidable foes, even managing to knock Loïc unconscious before they were eventually defeated. That was not the end of their hostile encounters that day, either, as just before they stopped for the night seven ghouls came howling out of the night, forcing the party into one last fight.

As if in compensation for the prior day, the rest of their three-day trek to Horgen was untroubled and they arrived in town on the morning of the twelfth day. Jasper asked around at the local tavern, the Golden Mug, for any sign of his band and was told that they had come through about a month ago and sounded as though they were on their way back to their home kingdom of Aloria. This represented a significant detour from the party’s current goal, meaning that Jasper would have to either go his own way or pursue the matter latter. He and Victor had a conversation about possible ways for him to earn enough money to support himself in the absence of his usual contract work with his group, which would hardly be a problem for someone of Lady Eaton’s means once they returned to the Underdark, that was immediately made awkward when they touched on the subject of Jasper’s past. Flora took the opportunity to add another emo song to her repertoire and Loïc handed out his business card to the receptionist of the local guard’s barracks.

Near the end of that same day, Jasper, still keen on purchasing a magic weapon, was told by a local blacksmith that he might earn enough money to make up the difference in the price by clearing out a cohort of hobgoblins who had been attacking townsfolk on their way to Sion Temple for some time now. The party was happy for a chance to earn a little coin and, thanks to a successful negotiation between the mayor and Flora, netted themselves a 350 gold contract to deal with the hobgoblins after a night of rest and preparation. They headed down the road toward Sion Temple and planned to stealthily approach the camp but despite one of their number being invisible, the plan immediately fell apart and they had to fight without the element of surprise on their side. Despite taking on a group twice their size, the party was able to pull through the battle without any casualties and headed back to Horgen to collect their reward.

Next
[Session 09](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2009.md)