---
date: 2019-02-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 13

With nothing else of note to be found in the room, the party headed back out into the hallway. Across the way sat the door that Flora knew from the guard’s memories the drow had been unable to breach. Jasper and Moreen took turns attempting to force the door open, eventually succeeding and allowing the party entrance into another catacomb. Suspecting that the ritual they sought might be among these tombs, the party begun to unseal the coffins, finding within a few minutes a skeleton crowned with an opaline circlet clutching a golden book embossed with the symbol of the rising sun they had been throughout the temple. Moreen and Loïc were both able to hold it with ease but simply touching the book seared Victor, prompting the rest of the party to keep it at arm’s length. Another barrier to discovering its secrets was the fact that the book had been written in celestial, a language none of the group had any familiarity with. With their task completed, the party finished picking through the rest of the tombs for any potential valuables and returned to the main floor of the temple. Their exit was barred by the presence of three sea hags waiting outside the front entrance. Granny Cassandra, the coven’s leader, beckoned them outside to speak with her and, though wary, the party agreed to the conversation. She and her companions held no love for the lich and offered information on his machinations for a price. This price sounded innocuous enough; they wanted the party to complete three tasks: retrieving a token from Sarah Hoptree in Ludenwick’s district of Beckton, delivering a letter to Seraphon in the drow city of Ylda, and collecting a jar of blood from the isle of Festering Wound. Once they had completed these errands, they could visit the hags on Luo for their reward. As none of the requests seemed dangerous or utterly reprehensible, the adventurers accepted and the illusion of the hags disappeared, allowing them to go on their way.

In the rowboat they had taken to Sen, the party set sail for Ylda. The two-day journey was punctuated only by the appearance of a drow patrol ship as they neared the city. Its captain demanded the party explain their business in the city but backed down from her aggressive opening once Loïc mentioned the name of the woman they had been sent to meet. She escorted the small vessel to Ylda’s port and provided writs of passage for the party to allow them to move freely through the streets for the duration of their delivery. With the attention of all those they passed on them, the party was not keen to linger after completing the delivery and so, when it went without incident, the group piled back into their boat and navigated back through the Shattered Sea to the cape of Dragonclaw where the Black Waltz awaited them. Aboard the Waltz, the bargain with the hag was explained to Rachel who agreed with some trepidation to take them to Festering Wound. The crew would need to take a day in Ludenwick to resupply before they could do so, however, which suited the party just fine. On the journey back to Ludenwick, Tobias flew out to deliver a letter to Loïc on behalf of Dame Ira Athalos inviting him and any number of his companions to tea on the day of their return. The two confirmed the plans over magical communication, setting the time for the afternoon in order to allow for the five to consult with Eris on the matter of the ritual. Having overheard, Maven requested that the party perform the grim task of delivering some of Rowan’s old belongings to their mother when they visited her.

Prior to the time that they would need to be at Ira’s, the party took care of various purchases in the city, including the acquisition of the famed bard troupe Evanescence’s newest songbook, and reconvened at Rosewood Manor. There, they discussed the problem of deciphering the book with Eris, who provided Moreen with a few books that would allow her to translate the text in time and informed them of her progress on pinpointing the location of the paladin Jinn’s sword. She would likely have news for them once they returned from Festering Wound. At the Athalos house, Loïc introduced the rest of the party to Ira. The luncheon was enjoyable but Ira revealed that she had an ulterior motive in asking them to visit her. On her property sat a well that had taken to screaming whenever anyone approached it and she hoped that, since the party often took care of peculiar business for Eris, they might be able to resolve the matter. Once they’d finished their meal, the party went outside to do just that.

At the five adventurers’ approach, piercing screams emanated from the depths of the well which were obscured by an impenetrable darkness. Flora and Victor were the first to stand near its edge and so the first to fall prey to its inexorable command - drown them. The two attempted to throw the other down into the well with little success. Seeing this, Jasper headed toward them with the intention of intervening but he too fell under its sway and tried unsuccessfully to toss Flora down the well. At this point, Flora was able to return to her senses and hoped to weave some protective magic to no apparent effect. Following a similar line of thought, Moreen joined the three at the well-side and was ensnared by its whispers. Unlike the rest of the party, she was successful in throwing Victor into the darkness of the well. Hurt but still conscious and more importantly in his right mind once again, he took the opportunity to examine the well but it was just as dark within as without, not yielding even to the candle he produced.

Above, Loïc was working on damage control for the rest of the compelled party. Eventually, Jasper was able to break free of the enchantment but Moreen remained firmly under its control. Flora managed to keep her from throwing any more of them into the well by casting a spell of her own on Moreen, keeping her stuck between the two conflicting impulses. Now that they were out of immediate danger, Loïc dispelled the darkness with magical light and Flora healed herself from an unseen psychic attack she had suffered not long after escaping the well’s magic. Now able to see, Victor found a symbol of Korth that had been imprinted in the stonework which he promptly scratched out with his dagger in the hopes that it would end the effects on the well to no avail. As time passed, Moreen was able to fight back against the command and free herself from its influence and Jasper hauled Victor out of the well. Now with a chance to examine the well properly, the party concluded that a dispelling spell would be able to end whatever had overtaken the well. Ira thanked them for their efforts with a payment and headed out to hire a cleric while the party made their way to Beckton to collect on the hag’s token. After some questioning, Sarah revealed that the package she was entrusting them with contained a dress which, despite the party’s suspicions, was simply a normal article of clothing under magical identification.

The next day, the Black Waltz sailed out on a six-day voyage to Festering Wound. Although the island lay near to the border of Eaton’s control of the Underdark, no hostile forces troubled them as they reached land, such as it was. The island was essentially a floating chunk of decaying flesh in the ocean, the land rotting and putrid as though it were still living. Indeed, when Flora attempted to heal the damage done by cutting into it to retrieve its blood, the flesh knitted back together as it would for any living being, thoroughly worrying all present. Nonetheless, the ichor of a god might prove useful, so Flora, Maven, and Victor all collected containers of it for themselves in preparation for future arcane pursuits. As she had promised, Eris had narrowed down the location of the sword significantly in the twelve days the party had been away from Ludenwick. A cluster of five islands in the western portion of the Aegulian Starshards that lay near Nocturne Caves were reported in the historical record as the resting place of Jinn in symbolic vigil over the lair of her ancient draconic enemies. Later the same day, the Black Waltz charted its course toward the Starshards, taking a full five days to reach the islands in question. Several hours were spent investigating the islands for signs of the tomb but, as afternoon was fading into evening, they came across an intact temple that serves as the centrepiece of a thicket of trees sequestering it away. Engraved on the door was the symbol of the Daybringer, marking it as their destination.

While the group scouted out the building and discussed a plan of attack, a voice came from inside the building, asking for their intentions in coming here. When the voice was not convinced by a tale of the five being travelers seeking shelter, the party came clean about their quest for the sword. Satisfied, the voice, which belonged to a half-elven priest named Tali Covesplitter who had been charged with maintaining the temple, allowed them entrance. She explained that though she would be happy to aid the five in battling the lich, the sword chose its own wielder. To manifest the blade, one dedicated to Torkan must shed blood on Jinn’s tomb and there they would be judged as worthy or not. Given that the ritual had only allowed itself to be touched by Loïc and Moreen, and one of the two was a cleric in the service of another deity, it became clear that the party really only had one likely candidate among them. Tali assured them that if Moreen was not willing to commit to the god’s service, the party would be able to find a warrior of Torkan to wield the blade somewhere in the Underdark, though it may not be an easy task. However, such a search would prove unnecessary. After deep consideration of the proposal and hearing the myths and tenants of the god she would be serving, Moreen agreed to undertake the ceremony of dedication to Torkan. In the hour that followed, the tale of the moon’s betrayal creating the cycle of day and night was recited, ending with the swearing of an oath to uphold the tenants of the sun god. Once the ceremony was complete, Moreen arose as a champion of Torkan and offered her blood to Jinn’s golden blade. Appearing in a blaze of light, the sword accepted Moreen as its new master and soon after she christened it Torkan’s Justice.

Next
[Session 14](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2014.md)