---
date: 2019-09-15
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tcmtm
---
# Session 20

The entrance hall was worse for wear, its balcony crumbling and preventing access to the upper floor of the palace. Two devils that had been set as guards, presumably by Yulicese, were milling about the ruined building. They attacked as soon as the party approached but could not stop their progress for long, as they were soon returned to the Nine Hells. Taking the eastern door, the party found themselves in a room that had been converted into a shrine. Its iconography didn’t fit with the typical designs of Lolth, but otherwise none in the group could determine what god it was dedicated to. Continuing in the same direction, they reached a sitting room where ethereal figures were laughing and talking. None of the spirits reacted to the party’s presence other than a drow whose eyes flicked up from her conversation to look at the party. Instantly, the room was empty.

Unnerved but undaunted, the three crossed the remaining length of the house to the throne room. Stone pillars carved with the paths of stars surrounded the throne and a single person was kneeling at the foot of the throne, holding a strange tentacled rod in supplication. The party barely had time to recognize the drow before she disappeared once more, though the rod fell from her ghostly hands with a solidly real clatter. They retrieved the rod and pressed on, taking one of the southern doors to what was once an art gallery - the works it had once proudly held were barely discernable now. The neighbouring room had served as a dining room but was now the prowling grounds of a pack of hellhounds. The party fought their way through the dogs to find a central hallway that took them past many of the closed doors they had seen in previous rooms. At its end stood a stone door with indentations for the tentacle rod. Once it was placed in the lock, the door opened to reveal a chapel. It had been decorated with symbols of dedication to both Orcus and Zariel by the man who stood at the altar, drawing a summoning circle around it. Yulicese Jamwant had indeed taken refuge here with Oadicius in tow. He was bound and gagged on the altar but he was still conscious. Moreen, who moved first, was able to free him, allowing him to join the battle.

The fight was more deadly than the one that had taken place on the steps of Taft Island’s town hall. Yulicese wielded the power afforded to him by his dark patrons to deadly effect against Flora and Moreen. As they lay unconscious, Oadicius was able to knock his brother out, ending the fight. Victor, however, was not content to leave him alive. The moment the spell hit Yulicese’s body, he was dead. Seizing the opportunity this presented, Zariel took her vengeance upon him for his association with the Lord of Undeath, disintegrating his body to eliminate the possibility of resurrection. A horrible silence fell upon the room. All this time Oadicius had harboured the hope that he could turn his brother from his path and his final chance to do so had been taken out from under him. Grief-stricken, he attacked Victor. In a bid to ensure he wouldn’t end up dead, Victor used the last of his health to revive Flora. Although she hadn’t seen what had happened, she restored Moreen to consciousness and did her best to convince Oadicius to stop. He assured her that he was simply returning the favour as he slit Victor’s throat.

Before the rest of the party could come to blows, Oadicius set about reviving Victor, having drawn a little catharsis from his death. The uneasy peace between the four was cemented when Victor returned to life, telling Flora and Moreen that he understood why Oadicius had done what he did. The palace stood empty now that its intruder lay dead and the party, still awkwardly, headed back to the Black Waltz. The journey back to Ludenwick took five days, allowing the party to regain some semblance of normalcy with each other along the way. Oadicius had taken up residence in the ship’s hold, where he could work on forging his latest project and distract himself from what had happened at Kalepick Keep. On the second day of the voyage, Victor worked up enough courage to speak with him. He apologized to Oadicius and, though the apology was accepted, Oadicius told Victor that he couldn’t forgive him. Victor agreed, thinking of his own brother’s death, and left the cleric to his work.

When the Black Waltz made port in the Grey Docks, the party took the opportunity to run various errands in the city: Flora made her usual trip to the university to bother Esker, earning herself a flask to the head for her antics. Victor went to the temple of Lathander to have his throat healed. Oadicius approached the final stages in the creation of the gauntlets he had been crafting. Moreen took a chance to simply relax. After their day in Ludenwick, the party resolved to take care of the task of stealing from the horde of the dragon that ruled over the Nocturne Caves before mounting an assault on Epiphora, where two more boneclaws prowled.

It was a mere day’s journey to the area in the Stalactite Mountains that the dragon called home and finding the entrance to the cave system posed little problem to the group. The biting cold of the climate made them grateful for that small mercy. Inside the cave was pitch black thus casting everything into shades of grey for the four. The sight of a frost giant chained in the southern end of the cave drew them all inside. Legs, the rogue of the Black Waltz’s crew, had joined them and was able to put his skills to good use in freeing the giant. They fled the moment that they were free of their chains, prompting the party to follow.

The shadows that dripped from the ceiling above seemed to coalesce to stop the group in their tracks as the dragon swooped down from above. He introduced himself as Zersani, lamenting that the party had released his prey. Flora attempted to justify their presence, but the dragon was in no mood for games and made the first move. Not only was Zersani a formidable foe due to his years of experience and all the advantages that being a dragon afforded him, the shadows themselves protected him from anything the party was able to throw at him. Only when Moreen spoke the words that imbued Torkan’s Justice with the light of the sun was the group able to make a dent in his defenses.

Even then, the victory was a close call decided by Legs’ decisive final blow while polymorphed into a giant ape. The riches contained within Zersani’s hold were more than worth the risk, providing the party with money and magical items both. Still, they were not eager to linger in the caves, returning to Ludenwick as soon as they had finished loading the spoils onto the ship.

As he was not quite able to afford Ezra’s criminal expertise on the matter of the manual for creating golems even with Zersani’s hoard, Victor arranged a meeting with Eris to ask for her to cover the rest of the price, under the pretense of purchasing a gift for Flora. Ezra was able to deliver within a few days, making the swap after managing to shake off Flora’s attempts to eavesdrop on their transaction. In light of that very incident and Eris arranging a meeting with Ezra to provide the final thousand gold, Victor insisted on Ezra’s silence on the matter. Amused, they agreed and vanished, though not before voicing their conclusion that Victor truly was a fool to be pursuing something he had to lie so often about to his companions.

Next
[Session 21](Recaps/Through%20Caverns%20Measureless%20to%20Man/Session%2021.md)