---
date: 2018-06-19
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 8

Following their usual morning routine, the party spent their time preparing for another expedition into the manor. To greet them in the first room, where the walls were covered in star charts, stood a model of the solar system, each of the planets revolving along their orbit. Four paths branched off in the northeastern, eastern, southern, and southwestern directions. The party decided to begin with the way to the southwest first. At the end of a short hallway, they found a sheer drop and a few outcroppings of rock along the edges of the pit that encompassed almost the entire room except for a treasure chest and a sizable chunk of solid ground on the other end. Vyrana, as an agile monk, and Eve, with the climbing abilities provided by being in the form of a bear, attempted to cross the room, while Korvias stayed at the entrance with his longbow ready in case they were ambushed. Sure enough, about halfway through their climb, the two were besieged by spells cast by magic crystals guarding the treasure chest. Despite the attacks, they were able to reach the other side and either dispel the magic that allowed them to operate or shatter the crystals. Once all four were destroyed, a formerly invisible path above the abyss was revealed, allowing the party to regroup much more easily. The treasure chest contained three magic scrolls, a potion, and some silver for their troubles.

Down the path to the south was a room that contained the remains of caged animals and people, as well as an owlbear who remained alive. With the alchemy jug’s gallon of honey and Eve’s limited ability to converse with it without the use of spells, they were able to communicate to the creature that they meant no harm and freed them, deciding that they would bring them out of the manor once they had cleared out the remaining rooms. The following room to the right was just as unpleasant, containing an examination table, and on it, a strange tentacular vein with eyes and mouths along its surface. Surprisingly, there was also a dwarven woman in the room, inspecting the vein. She refused to give her name to the party and was strangely dressed in ill-fitting clothes, but she did tell them that the vein was, according to the notes dotting the room, from the heart of the world that the old man had sought. In the room beyond was the house’s study, which was filled with half-comprehensible writings and, more curiously, two exact copies of the same painting. When Vyrana attempted to touch the desk, the paintings and a globe in the corner of the room sprung to life and attacked.

Once they’d defeated them and confirmed that there was nothing more in the room, the party returned through the previous room, which was now empty. The opposite hallway led to a room filled with looted paintings and empty glass cases, though the sarcophagus in the middle of the room did not seem to be empty, if the slamming against it from the inside was any indication. A vault on the east side of the room was also being knocked against. Deciding to tackle them once at a time, Eve and Korvias pushed the lid off the sarcophagus to find the same dwarven woman inside. She, again, did not given them her name, but seemed grateful for being released. Behind the vault door was, predictably, another of the same dwarf, who this time introduced herself as Riswyn Strongheart, the inheritor whose note about being lost in the house they had found in the caretaker’s former quarters. She explained that she had been trapped inside by doppelgangers for months, subsisting on magical food, and when they turned around again to leave, the other Riswyn was gone. Asking her to stay in the room with the owlbear until they were able to all leave the estate, the party doubled back to follow the path that had initially been to the east.

There, they found a dark beach inhabited by a crab and one of its much larger kin. Although the room appeared to be empty after taking care of the crabs, Eve took a swim in the waters below as a reef shark, before recognizing the cry of an abboleth and returning to the surface. Recognizing the clear danger it could pose, they decided to collapse the entrance to that room to prevent it from getting out and wreaking havoc. The final room contained three doppelgangers, who immediately attacked on being discovered. They took on the forms of the party, but that didn’t deter the group from dispatching them. With no further unexplored rooms, the party retrieved Riswyn and the owlbear and returned to the hamlet. Now in a safer area, Eve cast a spell to allow her to properly communicate with the owlbear, who expressed their wish to stay with her, since they had no family to go back to. Eve happily accepted, naming them Athena, and deciding to spend some time sleeping in the woods with her new friend rather than in the inn. A few more weeks had passed in the outside world and, by now, the velociraptors had integrated smoothly with the rest of the town, according to Montana. Riswyn, too, began the process of taking up a place in the town as the head of its church. The party visited the blacksmith, who had received the materials he’d ordered and presented them with stronger weapons. They also took some time to speak with Nova, who was very excited about how cool Athena was, before retiring for the night. Now that they had returned to the estate, their dreams were again plagued by the old man’s threats.

Next
[Session 09](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2009.md)