---
date: 2018-07-10
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 11

This time around, the four adventurers started their dive into the house via a broom closet, which was just as it seemed to be. With only one way forward, they headed south into a large room filled with assorted mining equipment for workers, such as axes, boots, and helmets. Heading east from there, the party reached a circular room shelved with books and scrolls. In the brief moments before the gauth holed up in the library reared its head, Eve’s Detect Magic revealed that one of the scrolls held a transmutation spell but before it could be picked up, the party was attacked by the gauth and three gazers. Its several eye beams made some significant trouble for the party, but they were able to take it out and put out the fire unleashed on the very flammable library by a stray ray from the gauth before it destroyed the tomes within. The scroll turned out to contain the spell Heat Metal and the books were mostly on the subject of natural science, with a variety of interesting handwritten observations inside. From here, the party had the opportunity to choose between a path to the north and a path to the south.

Going up to the north, they entered into a large room with a pedestal at its centre, a small cube sitting atop it. Mary interacted with the cube, finding that simply touching it didn’t do anything but flipping it reversed the room’s gravity. All three of the party members in the room found themselves thrown against what was now the floor, while Korvias - who had gone back the way they’d come after seeing what he perceived as likely a trap - just got a headache from how strange that sight was. After spending some time formulating a plan, Mary and Eve held onto the walls in preparation for the return to normal gravity and Vyrana leapt up from the “floor” and put the cube back to its original orientation, righting the room. Now reunited, the four continued on to the right, entering into an exceptionally long room containing two minecart tracks, a stone giant, and a sizable pit in the middle. Originally, the group intended to pile into one of the disused minecarts and quickly cross the hundred foot gap in the floor, but when the giant proved to be hostile by hurling a boulder toward them, they were forced to deal with it before proceeding. Despite having a boulder bowled toward them down the thin pathways that led across the room, they were able to kill the giant. In its pockets they found three dragon scales, some gold, and - for whatever reason - a live goat who Korvias named Dunkin.

They decided to take an hour to rest and recuperate, protected by the fey magic of the Gloaming Court, before pressing on to a crescent-shaped, cavernous room that appeared to be empty aside from a bird call that stopped as soon as they entered. As they were trying to figure out what bird could have made the sound, they were ambushed by five gricks. Fighting them off, they took the lower path to the west and found themselves in a room overgrown with the flesh that they had seen so often in the manor of late, with sharp bone sticking out and making it difficult to navigate. Fortunately, Eve had wild shaped into a velociraptor in the previous battle and was small enough to navigate between the hazards and retrieve a strange, gross morningstar made of hands that went straight into the bag of holding to be given to Melissa once they returned to the hamlet.

Continuing along this branch of the dungeon, the party reached a large bathing room filled with expensive bath salts and oils, as well as a single lizard. Once it was attacked, however, it was joined by a hulking crab and a giant crayfish, which emerged from the depths of the pool. The three monsters put up a fight but the party prevailed in the end and, having hit a dead end, turned around to explore the final room they had skipped earlier that was reachable from the hallway south of the library. As soon as they stepped foot in this room, the shade of the old man greeted them and offered them a chance to rest. It turned out to hardly be a choice at all, with three of the party trapped inside and Vyrana, who had escaped, forced to return by the old man’s threat of crushing the rest of the party if she didn’t.

The room contained a lavish selection of food, a couch, and a mirror that showed the ongoing destruction of the hamlet. Before the shade could do more than taunt them with their inability to oppose him, Eve shattered the mirror and was able to perceive that what they were being shown was an illusion rather than the truth of things. Sure enough, when they left the dungeon with Dunkin in tow, the hamlet was intact, though the caretaker told them that it had been under attack once again in their absence. The four then split up to take care of some errands around the town, including: Vyrana selling the dragon scales to buy more healing potions but keeping one to make into a necklace for Sal, Eve selling their magical finds to Melissa and speaking to Riswyn about the state of the church’s defences, Korvias purchasing a bell for Dunkin and negotiating with the barman to allow him to stay at the inn, and Mary refusing to leave Josiah’s house even though there had not been any danger to it for some time.

Next
[Session 12](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2012.md)