---
date: 2018-07-03
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 10

Rather than having their rest interrupted by dreams of the old man, the party was awoken in the morning by the sound of chatter in the common room of the inn. The caretaker and others who made up the main fixtures of the hamlet were holding a war council to decide what to do to defend themselves. Riswyn wanted to fortify the church, the blacksmith was in favour of arming those who could fight and having them join in defence, and the fisherman suggested going out on boats into the lake to make themselves inaccessible to many creatures that might manifest from the manor. Vyrana ended up synthesizing these ideas, sending those who were unable to fight to a nearby town which Mary had gone to in her absence and giving those who remained a means to fight and a base of operations. As the townsfolk began to set these plans into motion, the inheritors - now at last a group of four - descended again into the depths of the manor.

They found themselves in a room with two parallel minecart tracks, transporting some kind of material out of the mine. Vyrana ended up jumping into one of these carts and being carried off, though fortunately the track turned out to loop back around through the same room they had started in. To the south, where Eve had gone first when Vyrana’s cart went off in that direction, was a room with a raised portion that held three ogres. Before the battle progressed too far, the rest of the party joined her and defeated the ogres. From here, they could go down to the left or to the right. Choosing left, they entered a room with a narrow path across an abyss, covered with the familiar fleshy material of the veins of the heart they had encountered thus far. Although, at one point, there had been a path to the west of the room, there was only one way forward now.

This room was the largest so far, and contained a corpse flower and two zombies, which gave the party a run for their money. In the end, the party emerged victorious and, once again, followed a hallway to the left to find another room with minecart tracks. Three guard drakes patrolled as a girallon worked at mining the walls. Vyrana, using draconic, was able to convince the drakes not to attack them as they checked the room’s other exit. It turned out that this path went back into the abyss room, sending the adventurers back to the large room from before. Proceeding east, they entered a room that had been magically darkened, with Mary being the only one able to see. After falling through one spike trap triggered by a pressure pad on the ground, Mary developed a plan to lead them through that mostly involved touching the plates and being pulled back out of harm’s way. Having successfully reached the exit to the north, the party came into a very narrow passageway where a creature called The Lonely stalked. A mishap with the moonbeam spell knocked out Vyrana during the fight, and Eve was similarly incapacitated by its attacks, but the party was able to kill the devil and reach a room that contained three portraits of the old man. Naturally wary that they might be attacked again, there was some dart throwing to make sure they weren’t hostile. Surprisingly, they were not, and the first offered a gamble in exchange for information. Thanks to a good roll of a die, the party was told that, although the old man was still a fearsome magus, his physical form was quite vulnerable to attack, if they could reach it. The second painting, when touched, turned Mary into a tiny creature. The third painting asked Mary three questions: one about mustard, one about abjuration, and one about a roc, rewarding her with a stone of good luck when she was successful.

The final path in the large room led straight outside via a 50-foot drop that the party were not keen to take. However, when they attempted to leave the way they had come in, they found the way locked and eventually had to manoeuvre down the side with the manor with rope. Riswyn and some of the other townspeople met them as they came down the hill toward the town, informing them that, while they had been attacked, it had so far only been by monsters they had been able to fend off. Nonetheless, Eve gave some spell scrolls with healing magic to Riswyn for the townspeople, in case things got any worse. During their customary trip to see Nova, things took a dark turn when she suggested that the old man’s warnings about his growing power were nothing more than exaggerations and the shade appeared, causing psychic damage to all of them and summoning two minotaur skeletons. The party had not yet had a chance to recover from their time in the manor but Vyrana, Mary, and Korvias were able to bludgeon them to dust. Exhausted at this point, the four went to sleep, and the next morning Eve was able to dispel the magic that had shrunk Mary. Once again the old man didn’t plague their dreams; after all, he’d already moved on from that to affecting their waking lives.

Next
[Session 11](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2011.md)