---
date: 2018-05-01
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 2

Awakening the next morning, the party spent some time preparing for another delve into the depths of the house. When they arrived, as they had been warned, they found that the interior of the manor had changed, greeting them with an large room containing two doors, one to the north and one to the south, and a locked iron gate through which a ballroom overtaken by plant life could be seen. Taking the northern door, the party found a pool filled with algae and a few particularly hearty fish, and a shiny object glinting beneath the water. Mary, using Mage Hand to retrieve it, discovered that the gleaming item was some type of an enchanted pearl. Doubling back and trying the door on the southern end of the first room, the party reached a smoking room. When the tobacco that had been left in the room was picked up by Vyrana, the fireplace erupted into smoke, producing two mephits. Once they were defeated, the party had to pry open the door that would lead them deeper into the house to avoid more damage from smoke inhalation. Beyond that door lay a terrace that looked in on the ballroom, which appeared to be restored to its former glory and host to a party in full swing. On the terrace, the party encountered a snail and a lizard. Intent on getting into the ballroom, the group re-entered the house through a door on the opposite side of the terrace, which led into a kitchen haunted by three ghouls.

Dispatching them, the party was able to find a storage room where the remains of the house’s gardener were found, his journal giving them further insight into the actions of the old man who had once owned the place. The ballroom, returned to its dilapidated state, led into a chapel with a relief of the house’s crest on its floor and a book on the pulpit guarded by two drakes. After the fight, the party was able to use an underlined passage in the book to find a hidden passage through the relief and into a ritual room. At its center was an amalgamation of human and pig brought about by some dark ceremony, a dagger plunged into its head. Retrieving the dagger, the party found they could go no further and left the house. The caretaker congratulated the group but dampened the sense of triumph by telling the party that, in their absence, bandits belonging to the group that had attacked them on their way to the town had attacked, killing seven people.

Resolving to take out the bandits, the party rested and re-supplied before heading out into the woods outside of town. Eve, in Wild Shape as a wolf, and Mary and Vyrana following stealthily, discovered the cave that the bandits had made into their base of operations and began their attack. Through a combination of Mary’s use of Crown of Madness on the bandit leader, Eve’s invisibility and Moonbeam spell, and Vyrana catching a cannonball with her bare hand, the three threw the camp into absolute chaos and defeated all but one of the bandits, who surrendered as the last man standing - though Mary killed him with the dagger they had found before returning back to the party. Wheeling the cannon back into town, with the intention of donating it to the townsfolk for defending themselves, the party was met with the promise of food and drink on the house that night. After dinner, Mary revealed that she would be leaving the party to deal with some personal matters and Vyrana received the worried letters of her wife from the weeks that had passed in the outside world for the few days that the party had experience, which she responded to as quickly as she could. And yet, despite the air of celebration about the town that night, the party’s dreams were stranger and more ominous than before.

Next
[Session 03](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2003.md)