---
date: 2018-06-12
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 7

In the morning, as the adventurers were sitting down for breakfast, Vyrana raised the issue of the bandits. Although the previous party of three had stopped those who had been an immediate danger to the town, there still was an unknown potential threat from other vagrants stalking the Strangling Woods. Agreeing that it would be best to take them out rather than leave them to potentially attack the people of the town again, they set out to find any nearby bandit camps. A helpful crow pointed the group in the direction of a caravan of overturned wagons down the only road out of the town, which Eve and Vyrana recognized as belonging to the townsfolk who had left in response to their inability to stop the first bandit attack so long ago. Not far from the wagons was the man who had spoken for those who had decided to leave, Moryn, who was hidden in the forest - but not well enough to avoid Korvias’ sight. He confirmed what the party had gathered from what they’d seen, that the caravan had been ambushed by a coalition of several distinct groups of outlaws and some of the townspeople had been taken captive. Once they had healed him and ensured he would be safe in their absence, they continued down the road until they reached a fork, one branch of each seeming based on the tracks, to lead to one of the groups. Taking the middle path to a clearing, they found a group of twelve of the bandits with wolf pelts who had been plaguing them since they first arrived. The ensuing battle was hard-fought but they managed to defeat eleven of the bandits, the final one surrendering. While the party debated what to do with him, he slipped out of his restraints and attempted to escape by holding Korvias hostage, but was knocked out by Vyrana and killed by Korvias, though not before rattling Eve by pointing out the extreme damage done by her opening spell to people who could hypothetically have been negotiated with.

The second camp was where the survivors of the wagon attack had been taken and strung up by a tribal group who believed they were wolves. Although one among this group had a figurine of wondrous power, the party was able to take them on without being overwhelmed by their greater numbers. Only three of the captives were still alive, but the party stabilized them and brought them back to Moryn, assuring him that they would bring them all back to the town once they had dealt with the final group. The third path led to a cave where two werewolves and a dire wolf had taken up residence. In the battle that followed, the party came out on top, thus finishing off all of the attackers of the caravan. They then carried the survivors back to the town and took a well-earned rest. During this time, Vyrana, who had gone down to the main floor of the tavern to deliver a letter for her family to the caretaker, learned from the barman that he was the one responsible for writing the letters that brought the inheritors to the manor. He had grown attached to the party, feeling particularly guilty that Vyrana had a family, and told her that he thought she should go home. Vyrana put him at ease by saying that, while he may have brought her here, she was continuing to battle against the evils of the manor for her own reasons.

The next day, breakfast was again interrupted by a fisherman who requested the party’s help in dealing with the new, dangerous wildlife out by the lake. These creatures turned out to be velociraptors, dimetrodons, and a quetzalcoatlus, all of whom had come to the lake to feed on the animals who had eaten the kraken’s egg. With a spell to allow her to speak to the dinosaurs, Eve was able to broker a deal with the velociraptor familia that they would be fed jerky in exchange for leaving fishermen’s fingers intact and one with the dimetrodons that they would leave people alone if they were left alone. The quetzalcoatlus was less cooperative and the party had to fight it. The velociraptors had said they would show up at noon tomorrow for the party to hold up their side of the deal, so they passed the time until then with Nova and the blacksmith. At noon the day after, the velociraptors arrived as promised, revealing that there were fifty of them in total that the town was going to have to feed. Once they’d had their first payment, the leader of the familia - who Vyrana named Montana - decided to stay in town with his two lieutenants who had been on the beach to ensure everything went smoothly from here on out.

Next
[Session 08](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2008.md)