---
date: 2018-06-26
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 9

During breakfast, Mary walked into the tavern, having returned from her enigmatic errand, much to the surprise of Vyrana and Eve. It was fortunate, too, as Korvias had come down with a case of raptor pox and would be out of commission for the day. After a two hour long digression to prepare mustard using the alchemy jar, the three headed up to the manor and made their way inside via a dumbwaiter just large enough for three. The first hallway opened up into a large smithy with four long-disused forges on the walls. In the centre was a crane holding several large buckets. Before they could investigate further, a wave of psychic damage emanated through the room, originating from a shade of the old man, appearing outside their dreams at last. He gave the party their final warning: either join him or leave the town if they wanted to avoid being the targets of his increasing power. Of course, all three categorically refused. The shade vanished and a stone defender and an oaken bolter shuddered to life, attacking the party. They were able to destroy the constructs and even retrieve one of the explosive bolts from the bolter for later use. While they decided who would take it, the crane released one of the buckets, causing a cylinder of solid steel to go hurtling toward the party. However, Vyrana was able to catch the falling object before it harmed anyone, adding another trophy to her collection at the inn.

Going south from the smithy, the next room was punctuated by two gaping holes in the floor. Chains ran the height of these and strange fleshy masses resembling the one they had seen during their last adventure into the house were tangled in one of them. Eve dropped a torch down the pit, finding that it did have an end, though it was considerably deep. Here they also found a small gear that presumably matched a mechanism somewhere deeper inside. Even further south was an even larger gaping void, beside which, by some trick of the estate, lay the torch that had been dropped down the other pit. Before they could investigate it much further, an iron cobra and three bronze scouts entered from the north. Once these enemies were dismantled, the party decided it was best not to meddle too much with an area with so much spatial distortion and headed north, reaching a room filled entirely with mirrors. A raised dais filled with still water sat innocuously by, though it soon was revealed to be anything but, as touching it compelled Eve to eat all of her rations before its effects wore off.

North once more led to a room filled with an elaborate system of interlocking gears, with three areas where the gears didn’t all fit together due to some being missing. Slotting in the one gear they had found, the party doubled back through the mirror room to follow the path to the east, entering a room filled with effigies made of haphazard collections of bones and with three skeletal minotaurs. During the battle, Eve was knocked unconscious, but Vyrana was able to use a healing potion to revive her. Now that the group was no longer under attack, they were able to locate a second gear. Up through the hallway across the room was a room that had formerly contained a cage that would have held the collection of zombies and a spawn of Kyuss that now walked around freely. Narrowly avoiding the dangers presented by the spawn, the party cleared the room of monsters and retrieved the final gear from a desk that sat against one of the room’s walls.

With all three gears in hand, they returned to the room with the missing gears and completed the mechanism, which slid back to reveal a hidden room. Inside sat a small jewellery box that contained two magical rings. The final unexplored path led not to another room in the manor, but to the home of a man who lived in the hamlet. As Mary and Eve attempted to explain their presence to the man, Josiah, Vyrana returned for her steel trophy and was confronted by the shade. He made what had so far been implicit threats to the safety of the townsfolk quite explicit to her. With this information in mind, the party decided to stay at Josiah’s house overnight in case any monsters came through before the manor’s layout changed. Before turning in for the night, Eve headed out to speak with the raptors and Athena, asking them if they would be willing to help defend the town, Vyrana doing the same for Riswyn while Mary remained at Josiah’s to stand guard. Eve also spoke briefly with the caretaker on the subject of places where the old man might have gone to attempt his ascension and was told about an old mine under the estate that he figured delved deep enough to be close to the heart of the world.

No monsters emerged that night, but the connection between the manor and the house remained. Not keen to leave that link in place, Vyrana destroyed the door and paid Josiah enough gold to get a replacement. In response, the tower of the mansion erupted with black smoke, which was concerning enough that Eve trekked up the hillside to cast dispel magic on it to head off any potential trouble. For the rest of the day, they had some cannon practice with Nova, bringing Athena along as promised, though the danger they would face in the coming days cast an ominous air over their time together.

Next
[Session 10](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2010.md)