---
date: 2018-07-24
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 13

Beyond the grand entrance lay an expansive foyer, with a staircase at its centre and several hallways leading in various directions. Before the party could make their choice of these paths, an aasimar who was covered in the fleshy growths that marked the influence of the heart of the world over the estate greeted them. He introduced himself as Daniel and informed them that the master of the house was making preparations beneath the manor to meet them. In the meantime, he said, they were free to explore the manor and he went off to take a 50-foot coil of rope given to him by Eve to the coat room.

The first room they entered was a library, wherein one book in particular was placed on a reading lectern. Mary paged through it and was frightened, propelling the party into the north room as they chased after her. This room was a large room stocked with cleaning supplies and the like, decorated sparsely aside from a portrait of the old man. Having learned their lesson from last time, the party attacked the painting before it could get a jump on them. However, they didn’t anticipate the additions of the room’s rug and two tables into the fray. As soon as Vyrana finished reducing the table to splinters, Daniel entered. He was not particularly impressed with their destruction of property, but offered the party cookies, which they accepted. To the south they found a room occupied by a large pool table and the spirit of a yuan-ti named Otze, who challenged the party to a game of pool, with some potentially useful information on the line. Being quite out of practice due to being dead, Mary beat him handily and Otze revealed that, for all the old man’s talk, he was more of a parasite leeching off the heart of the world than one with it as he’d claimed.

With the west side of the first floor fully explored, the group headed down the hallway Daniel had first gone down, finding the walk-in closet in which cloaks and coats were stored. Vyrana commented on the old man’s clearly poor taste in fashion, prompting two nearby coats to attack. The wallpaper, too, peeled off and joined the fight. These were, in truth, two mimics and two trappers, which the party were able to defeat. Daniel, catching up with them again, continued to be exasperated by the mess they were making of the house, but still compelled by some strange sense of hospitality, offered them a meal in the nearby dining room. The four took this opportunity to take a quick rest and recuperate from their fights. Afterwards, they headed into the sitting room, which was adorned with many stuffed heads, one of which had a bag over it. When Vyrana removed it, the head was seen to have belonged to a human and gold coins began to spew from its mouth. They were able to seal it up, though not before leaving a significant pile that Daniel stopped to clean up.

With no other way to go but up, the party climbed the central staircase of the foyer to the second floor. The first room they looked in was filled with nothing but implements of torture, which they were happy to leave behind. Further north was a study where a skeleton lay, the knife that had killed it still jutting out of its back. Removing the knife caused the scene of the man’s death to play out before the party, showing them that the old man was the culprit. After a brief visit to Daniel’s quarters, which they left undisturbed out of respect for his privacy, they entered into a large bathing room. A hill giant and his two pet giant frogs were enjoying a nice bath there and demanded that the party bring him food. They agreed to do so, mostly to get out of the room without incident, and Daniel told them that he had managed to prevent meeting the fate of the house’s previous butlers - namely being eaten by the giant - only by managing to corral him into the bath. With this knowledge, the four returned to the bath, their re-entry obscured by the steam rising from the water, to slay the giant.

At the end of the eastern hallway sat a pair of ornate rooms, one of which had an animate disembodied head in its toilet that Mary trapped with a halfling statue they’d retrieved from the giant’s belongings. The other contained a finely-crafted hand mirror that Mary felt compelled to look into on picking up, though she was ultimately able to resist its influence and smash. They passed by another modest bedroom into the smoking room, where Daniel had been sedately smoking while they explored. The final room on the western side of the second floor was another library with nothing on its shelves that jumped out when the party investigated it. What did catch their attention was a light visible under the door that led out into the main hallway, which they followed to four will-o’-wisps. Despite not being heavy-hitters, their small size and speed made them difficult opponents for the party’s attacks to make contact with. Nonetheless, they defeated them, marking the end of their exploration of the two available floors.

At this point, Daniel came out of the smoking room to deliver the message that the old man was ready to see them now before slumping over, dead. The moment his words were spoken, a rumbling could be felt from the lower floor, drawing the party down to the foyer once again. The source of the rumbling was a hole opening up in the middle of the floor and out from it climbed a young white dragon, which wasted no time in attacking the party. They were in a poor state to fight, having not had a chance to recover from their battle with the giant and his pets and, with both Eve and Korvias out for the count at one point, it looked as though they might have met their match. However, they could not falter here if they meant to save the hamlet and end Jebediah Mann’s influence over the manor, and so, in the end, they were able to persevere and kill the dragon. As they turned and headed back upstairs to the bedrooms to gather their strength for what they knew was coming, the pit beckoned them into the depths of the earth for their final confrontation…

Next
[Session 14](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2014.md)