---
date: 2018-07-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 12

Early in the morning, the party, spread out as they were across the hamlet, were all awakened by a rumbling from beneath the earth, bringing them from their disparate places to gather at the inn. From the steps, they watched as three stone towers emerged from the ground, one of the towers supplanting a house and destroying it. Certain that these towers meant trouble, the party set off to the northernmost tower and were greeted by a hail of eye beams from the crenellations. Heading inside, the ground floor appeared to be empty but Eve triggered one of two spike traps in the ground and was forced to wild shape into a bear to climb out. On the second floor, four giant lizards and a giant subterranean lizard were awaiting them. Mary both started strong by tossing a bomb into their midst and ended the fight with the Arms of Hadar, with help from the others in between. Before reaching the third and final floor, the party caught a glimpse of the state of the hamlet outside, seeing that while they were under attack by a horde of skeletons and zombies, they were holding their own. The source of the beams was found to be a gauth and two gazers, just as they had fought in the library of the manor, but this time the two gazers took on the form of the old man’s disembodied head.

Once the tower had been cleared out, the party decided to move on to the tower from which arrows were being fired down into the battle on the streets. On their way, Riswyn intercepted them and cast a Mass Healing Word to help them on their way. An oaken bolter sat on the roof, which Vyrana shot an arrow at on her way in, but two floors lay between them and it. The first of these floors held three wights, which were straightforward enough to deal with. The second floor, however, was home to a single barrel with a clock face attached to it that was counting down to something. Vyrana was able to crowbar off the lid and reveal that it was full of clockwork mechanisms and explosive liquid. Stopping it from exploding seemed to be beyond the party’s abilities, since none of them had seen such a device before, but Mary was able to use the knowledge of the souls collected by her dagger to disarm it. As the group reached the third floor, they were able to ambush the oaken bolter with its back to them and destroy it before it could react to their presence.

Only one tower remained and, despite the spread of fire across several homes and acres of farmland, the townsfolk were still beating back the encroaching threat without any heavy casualties, so the party hurried to empty the final tower. The entrance turned out to be trapped but fortunately for Vyrana, who entered first, it was a relatively weak blast. The first room was completely filled by a swarm of cranium rats. The swarm was capable of collective spellcasting and managed to catch Eve, Vyrana, and Korvias in a Confusion spell. Luckily, at half health, the spell was automatically dropped, allowing them to join in the latter half of the fight. On the second floor, they saw three large containers of muddy liquid but no immediate threat and so intended to go on to stop the archers on the third floor. However, as soon as they reached the opposing wall, three slithering trackers revealed themselves to be hiding in the bottles and attacked, surprising the party. Despite Korvias being grappled and taking some damage from their attacks, they were able to defeat the trackers and reach the final floor. Three regular skeleton archers and two skeletons covered in the flesh that the party recognized as belonging to the heart of the world engaged them in battle. The group managed to kill four and rout one, though Vyrana and Mary were able to take it out at range.

With the three towers neutralized, the party regrouped with the townsfolk, who had won their own battle as well. Nova spent some quality cannonfire on one of the towers, cathartically working out the stress of the past couple hours and Mary revealed her own methods of catharsis which she’d used in her time away. In light of this disturbing revelation, the party, along with Nova, headed back to the inn for some tea and discussion of meditation techniques. In the hour of downtime that followed Vyrana got called “mom” by Nova, Mary went to have stew with Josiah, and Korvias retrieved Dunkin from the care of the barman.

Before long, their rest was interrupted by more rumbling, coming this time from the cemetery to the south. The cause of the quake soon came into sight; a huge amalgamation of flesh and bone large enough to crush houses had begun to pull itself out of the ground. Having only had a little time to recover from their numerous battles, the party was not at their best going into the fight and having huge boulders lobbed at them made it difficult to avoid being in harm’s way. Nonetheless, they were able to take it down before it could attempt to crush much of the hamlet, with Mary dealing the final blow thanks to Greater Invisibility and a well-placed critical hit. When the huge abomination crumbled to the ground, the shade of the old man appeared. He flung the double doors of the manor wide open, inviting the party to come face-to-face with him at long last. Although the four were eager to do so, they were utterly worn out from the series of fights they had endured and spent the rest of the day sedately in the company of the people and creatures of the hamlet, preparing to cross the threshold of the manor for what would, one way or another, be the final time…

Next
[Session 13](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2013.md)