---
date: 2018-05-17
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 3

Now a party of two, Eve and Vyrana sought out the caretaker the morning after their victory. He advised against another journey into the manor while they were short a companion, instead directing their attentions toward the matter of a young girl named Nova who had run away from the care of the hamlet’s blacksmith - presumably toward the manor - into which she had been placed after her family had been victims of the prior bandit attack. Intent on finding her, the two consulted with the blacksmith and made preparations before embarking. However, rather than facing the ever-changing interior of the house, they traced Nova’s path to the nearby rose garden, overgrown with thorns due to lack of maintenance. On entering, they found a statuette of a man which was curiously nondescript. Retrieving the small figure, they proceeded to the left side of the garden. In this wing of the garden lay the remnants of the benches and tables that would have made it a pleasant place for a party and, notably, a pair of statuesque antlers in a hole guarded by a badger. Although Eve’s attempts at negotiations with it were ineffective, Vyrana was able to distract it by offering it some almonds, allowing an opportunity to swipe the statue from its lapsed protection.

With two statues in their possession, they crossed to the other side of the garden. This area’s statue was entangled by a surprisingly resilient spiked growth, which yielded to their attacks only after Eve transformed into a bear and clawed the vines away from the statue. Moving forward, they engaged a vegepygmy and a thorny, who guarded the fourth statue. In the rose garden’s final room stood an obelisk and a wooden door, both of which would only divest their secrets after solving a puzzle. The final statue, too, was found in this room, completing a set of statues representing the sun, an apple, a wolf, a deer, and a man. When placed in their places around the room, only the man remained, opening the door. Before entering, though, the two bent their minds toward answering the riddles inscribed on the obelisk, eventually succeeding and revealing a dagger and a pair of bracers.

Beyond the door was Nova, who told the two that she had left with the intention of becoming strong enough to prevent another incident like that bandit attack from leaving her alone again. Both Vyrana and Eve attempted to speak to her with little success but upon realizing that even magic could not revive those she had lost, she conceded to returning to the village. On their return, the blacksmith thanked them for bringing Nova back. Yet, some of the townsfolk were not so grateful to the inheritors, blaming them for not preventing the bandit attack and deciding to leave the town until the new inheritors arrived. With their immediately pressing tasks completed, Eve and Vyrana took some time to speak with the caretaker about what he knew of the former head of the estate, gleaning some new perspective on his attempts at gaining greater power and knowledge. Eve, having experienced several times the strange force that made it impossible to hear certain names and dates when spoken aloud, attempted to determine what force was causing it, but was only able to determine that it was some type of abjuration magic. With the day’s business concluded, Vyrana and Eve retired to their rooms, though not before sending messages to their family and friends respectively.

Next
[Session 04](Recaps/Auril%20Adventures/Campaign%201%20-%20The%20Dragonest%20Dungeon/Session%2004.md)