---
date: 2018-08-01
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/tdd
  - recap/tdd/tdd1
---
# Session 14

After testing the proverbial waters by throwing a torch into the pit, the party descended into a small room with a squelch. Being that they were closer to the heart than they had ever been, the fact that the flesh of the heart was ever-present was disconcerting, but meant they were closer to ending this. With only one way to go - forward - the four entered into a long room. The flesh beneath their feet was now dotted with eyes and mouths, pools of fetid liquid gathering in their footprints. It became apparent as soon as they crossed the threshold of the room that the place itself was their enemy; the mouths leapt from around them to bite at the party, who were able to narrowly avoid contact with the sharp teeth. Realizing that crossing the room as quickly as possible was prudent, each party member made their way to the door at the other side of the trapped room with a combination of dashing and invisibility, managing to move through patches of tearing mouths, lashing tentacles, and piercing eyes to the door that barred their way. Like everything else in the room, it was entirely fleshy and held up under all the brute force the party could throw at it thanks to a carapace that covered it. Putting their heads together, Mary and Korvias were able to determine that if they were able to get around the flesh-door’s protective layer, they could easily pass through the door. Armed with this new insight, Vyrana deftly used a dagger to slice the carapace from the flesh underneath and punched the beating heart it concealed, allowing them to pass through.

The centrepiece of the adjacent room was a statue of Jebediah Mann, hands cupped with a metal grate situated there, surrounded by skulls. Pouring water into the statues hands had no effect and with the way forward locked, the party headed to the door on the left into a room that was empty aside from the unconscious figure hanging manacled to the ceiling - Nova. Mary and Korvias were rightfully wary of the situation but Eve and Vyrana rushed to help her, dispelling the enchantments on the collar and removing the manacles. As soon as they did so, the illusion of Nova faded to reveal a tiefling woman who explained that she had been a maid in the house before being knocked out and imprisoned, and introduced herself as Panic after the initial shock of finding herself in the depths of the manor wore off. In the room parallel, they found the blacksmith strung up in a similar way, but were canny enough to realize that this was probably another illusion. Once dispelled, the magic gave way to reveal a fire genasi named Ignatius who was formerly the manor’s cook. The six all gathered in the main room, puzzling over the statue with its outstretched hands that clearly required some offering from them in order to open the way. Panic suggested that, given the skull imagery, a decapitated head was the expected tribute. Fortunately for the party’s heads, a combination of blood and weight were enough to activate the statue’s mechanism and cause the door at the other side of the room to slide open.

They entered into a spacious room characterized by four pillars and various murals of the crest of the House of Mann covering the walls, but it would otherwise have been stark and empty if not for the two cysts growing from the floor which obscured the hallway that led further into the unknown. Cautiously, Vyrana shot an arrow at one of these cysts, causing a gush of liquid to burst forth from it and the flesh itself to peel away from the fleshy creature that had been held inside. In response to the first cyst splitting open, the second did the same and both skinless creatures began to shamble toward the party. Despite a two-to-one advantage, the ensuing battle was not an easy one and the party stopped for an hour of rest before heading beyond the passage that had been blocked by the cysts. The party of six stepped out onto a bridge surrounded by darkness, the very middle of which was completely overtaken by flesh that rose up out of the ocean of blood below. They faced no danger as they crossed, until they reached the edge of the overgrown flesh and were barraged by oversized molars that shot out of the darkness surrounding their narrow path. The party, as well as Panic and Ignatius riding along on a bear-shaped Eve who was able to absorb the brunt of the toothy projectiles launched their way, were able to safely navigate the bridge with a combination of teleportation magic and athletic feats, entering into a large room with no exits.

Here, the shade of Jebediah Mann appeared to them, wasting little time in beginning the fight they had all been anticipating. Both sides held nothing back; the former master of the manor raised skeletons, summoned a translucent hand that at one point forced Mary back out of the arena and onto the bridge, and at one point caught everyone in the radius of Circle of Death, and in return, Vyrana bludgeoned the skeletons into dust, Korvias took out the magical hand, and Eve and Mary cast their most powerful spells on the shade. When the dust settled, it was a hard-won victory for the inheritors, but a victory nonetheless. They were not out of the woods yet, however, as the beating of the heart of the world that had filled the room since they’d entered begun to accelerate. Layers of the pillar of flesh stretching up from the void in the centre of the room pulled away of their own volition to reveal the shrivelled body of Jebediah Mann, who Mary killed before he could attempt any final deception. At the moment the old man’s soul left his body, a river of blood burst forth from the arteries of the heart of the world, giving the party no choice but to try to escape the mounting flood by returning to the pit they’d first descended from.

Even Vyrana wasn’t able to get very far before all the air was pushed out by the rising tide of blood, drowning all six of them. Somehow, rather than dying, they all awoke on the first floor of the manor, at the edge of the pit which was now brimming with blood. Confused but glad to be alive, the inheritors headed out of the manor, watching as the blood that welled up from the pit spilled out from the manor onto the snow that coated the hill leading down into the hamlet, a sign that autumn had given way to winter. The four headed to the inn and were greeted by the ecstatic cheers of the people of the hamlet. With the evil that had plagued them for so long vanquished, names were exchanged, reunions were had, comeuppance for past actions was meted out, and the inheritors looked together toward a future of peace.