---
date: 2021-05-11
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 24
Upon their return to their accomodations at Luck's Luxury, Daaé and Mircea noticed the subtle signs that someone else had been in their rooms. A more thorough investigation under pillows and in nooks revealed that nothing had been taken. Instead, each of the party members had been given an envelope containing a missive from Glasya and a thin metallic emblem that bore the crest of Malbolge. The letter explained that presenting the crest would expedite travel between planes which the party had already visited, with the downside that their movement between the planes would be made more noticeable by its use.

After several days of monotonously repetitive dreams, Apollo found himself in differing circumstances that night. He was standing beneath a blue sky, skipping stones across a bay. Each pebble produced ripples that echoed far longer that should have been possible, disturbing the water's surface until waves crashed down upon the shore. As he watched the waves lap at the edge of the large rock that served as his vantage point, Apollo looked down at his hands to see that they were a grey-blue that he had never before seen. Peering into the water revealed long hair and angular features that, in combination with the weight of the scabbard at his hip, he concluded belonged to Maia Abbas.

Meanwhile, Nox joined Mircea in the common space, insisting that he did not need to sleep. Mircea doubted him but did not get the opportunity to press him further on the matter due to several sendings arriving on behalf of Vortigern. They conveyed their surprised congratulations to Nox for securing reinforcements from Phlegethos and requested that he meet with them at his earliest convenience.

Once the group was awake, refreshed and recovered from their unexpected battle the other day, they discussed their plans going forward. Nothing remained for them on Phlegethos, but several members of the party had loose ends to tie up elsewhere in the Nine Hells. Nox's summons to Avernus took priority and Mircea's meeting with Andrealphas in Dis would be attended to second. Then, they would make the journey to Malbolge to enact Glasya's will.

Although the process of moving through the planar gates was indeed greatly sped by their crests, the gate to Avernus was inconveniently located for travel to the Castle of Unholy Triumph. On foot, they would need to again make the six-day journey to the castle that they had made on their first visit - a prospect that the party was not looking forward to. However, Nox was able to request transport for the party from Vortigern, who said that they would be picked up by a nearby cohort.

While they waited, Daaé contacted Virgil to make use of his demiplanar library. Apollo and Nox expressed their interest in accompanying them, leaving Mircea behind to keep an eye out for the convoy that would soon be meeting them. The three were met at the entrance of the demiplane by the construct who had helped them to navigate the shelves during their last visit. Nox asked her to bring him back to the section he had been browsing before, which she quickly obliged.

Inexplicably, it seemed that another Nox was already looking through the books on apotheosis that Nox was interested in reading and both Noxes became outraged at the presence of the imposter. At first, the party thought that the other Nox was a mimic or shapeshifter of some kind but his possessions and memories of his recent activities made it evident that this Nox was indeed real, merely misplaced in time. Daaé left Apollo in charge of ensuring that the two Noxes' sniping at each other did not devolve into violence with the goal of finding Eludecia. When they did, the construct had no recollection of their arrival at the library. Daaé asked her to contact Virgil, who was likewise confused.

Bringing him into contact with the Noxes made it clear to him what had transpired. In the past, Eludecia had been damaged and while her functions had been largely repaired by an artificer named Wilhelmina Delmirev, her design was extremely complicated and some small malfunctions remained. Nox's request to be brought back to the books he had been examining had been misinterpreted such that the visitors had been transplanted in time. Virgil assured the party that he would be able to fix her once they were returned to the present.

Eludecia took them back to their usual time where Virgil ushered her off for repairs, giving the party free-reign over the library. Nox read consulted the books on ascension he had been looking for and learned that two mortals had managed to reach godhood. One was a queen who sought to usurp death and though she succeeded, her ritual was altered from her original plan by sabotage or divine intervention. The other was a wizard who wanted to amass more power than a mortal could wield. The details of his method were not included but they appeared to be wholly functional, if the text was to be believed.

Daaé began to investigate precursor languages of Elvish in the hope that they would be able to translate the words in their dream. A number of ancestral languages had some reference texts among the library's books including Draconic, Hamarfae, and Sicani. However, consulting dedicated Elvish language archives would be required to find any books that would assist with the work of translation.

Apollo looked into Maia Abbas, finding only one short volume on his exploits. It told the tale of a humble farmhand who was embroiled in a life of adventure when he found Dragon's Breath on the shore of the river that wound through his hometown of Tindalsea. With his companions - a bard, a sorcerer, and a barbarian - he embarked on a grand quest. Along the way, he was chased by a mysterious armoured figure who he defeated in order to prevent the enactment of their dark plan. For his bravery, he was named Bearer of the Fifth Chalice and then he returned to his home to while away the rest of his life in peace. Once their research was complete, they returned to their campsite for the night.

The party awoke to the sound of a mechanical vehicle approaching, carrying a familiar face. Elligor and a small group from the 17th Legion greeted the five and brought them aboard the cart before explaining the task that they had been sent out to complete. A coven of hags had been haranguing troops that passed by their dwelling, stealing their hair and interfering with their work. Daaé offered to negotiate with the hags on Elligor's behalf, noting that the differences in the way devils and fae viewed fairness might hamper negotiations.

The hags were initially resistant to the idea of coming to a ceasefire with the legions, still nursing a bitterness that sprung from the loss of their control over the plane of Avernus, but the party was able to convince them that they might be able to gain something suitable out of the arrangement. As they climbed into the cart, the hags politely asked for the party's names. Nox was unfortunate enough to respond without thinking and soon found that his name belonged to the eldest hag. Daaé was able to exchange their middle name for Nox's, which they were then able to return to him. Maravel was amused by their ingenuity and agreed to no further tricks for the rest of their journey to the Castle of Unholy Triumph, where they would entreat with Zariel.

Next
[Session 26 - Goes Unpunished](Session%2026%20-%20Goes%20Unpunished.md)