---
date: 2022-07-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 41

The sound of the door exploding open had drawn the notice of an unexpectedly familiar face - Tangie. Incredulous, they asked they how they had gotten to Cania but they gave no explanation. There was nothing the party could do to prevent him from glomming on to them so they only offered token resistance before turning to the problem at hand.

Convincing Mephistopheles to ally with Glasya would surely prove a great challenge, even with several factors arrayed to their benefit. The first of those was the known close personal relationship between the two archduxes, as the Liege of the Nine Itself had conferred a familial position for the young devil to Mephistopheles. The second was that the party had just lent their aid to the duke consort, which both obliged him a certain amount of support for the party in their audience with the archdux and would make the archdux favourably disposed toward them. Finally, even if they seized the throne of Liege of the Nine, Glasya would be a young and inexperienced individual in an immense position of power. She would need to rely upon her allies and those she had reason to trust most would be able to exert significant influence over the whole of the planes.

Conversely it would be a grave risk to support Glasya in her revolution if it was ultimately unsuccessful; the fate of Beelzebub was evidence enough of that. Furthermore, the threat levied against Faustus that the party overheard the previous night might make him unwilling to support the party’s petition even in light of their recent assistance to him.

Even so, there were more reasons to join them than to refuse. With some confidence, the party went to speak with the duke consort. He was still where they left in him the library and was pleased to hear that the adventurers had taken care of the matter of his would-be assassin. There was some debate about how much they should tell him about Jezebel’s involvement but the sanctuary provided by Glasya made them confident that they could give their name to Faustus without issue. He seemed mostly amused by their attempts on his life, so all was well on that front.

He would require some time to fulfil his end of the bargain, as investigation into the nature of the agreement made for Mircea’s soul would involve systems of the Nine Hells that resided in Nessus. The party requested that he also arrange an audience with Mephistopheles. Faustus inquired as to the subject matter and the party quickly found themselves seeking to persuade *him* of the merits of an alliance with Glasya, as he was empowered to speak on behalf of Cania. Although he acknowledged that they made persuasive arguments, he noted that Fierna (Glasya’s betrothed) and potentially Mephistopheles (Glasya’s “godparent”) would be the only ones pledged to their cause. He wanted to see the party successfully negotiate for the support of an archdux unattached to Glasya before Cania made any decision. The group had no other option but to accept his challenge.

Faustus extended the hospitality of Mephistar to the adventurers while he made arrangements for Mircea. Having some time to themselves, each of the four members of the party undertook their own pursuits. Apollo attempted to look into Maia Abbas, learning little other than that he was repeatedly named “Bearer of the Fifth Chalice”, a phrase that stuck in his mind now that they had heard of individuals other than Calanthir being charged with guardianship of a chalice. Nox continued his search for the mechanism of apotheosis, finding only a completely outlandish method involving self-reflection and true love for another person, and had a brief audience with Mephistopheles where he managed to minutely ingratiate himself with the archdux even though Tangie did his best to ruin it.

Mircea worked with Faustus to determine the identity of the person sending him empty messages since his arrival in Cania. With the use of a sending scroll, Mircea was able to bait the mystery person into contacting him again and he was able to hold onto the spell long enough for Faustus to break the shroud around the caster’s name. It turned out to be Şenkă simply taunting him. Şenkă’s nature and apparent ability to circumvent the authority of the archduxes alarmed Faustus and he made it clear that he would do his own research into the matter. Marica worked on her project with the ichor, uncovering a potentially useful property of the substance on her path to immortality. Application of ichor to the surface of a body part would stop its cells and induce immortality. Of course, her limited supply of ichor made it impossible to test the potential scope of the process at this point, but she suspected that its use on more complex tissue like the lungs or brain would require further tweaking.

Days later, Faustus met with the party in the garden, under the arms of the enchanted gazebo that would ensure their privacy. The contract for Mircea’s soul had been negotiated between the Morninglord and the Liege of the Nine Hells, with care of his soul going to the Liege of the Nine and the benefit for the Morninglord being that his presence in the Nine Hells would incentivize the redemption that the Morninglord desired. The good news was that Faustus did not need to intercede on his behalf because the Morninglord had annulled the contract Itself recently. The party speculated that this was due to the fact that Mircea had indeed made efforts to better himself and he needed no further prodding. Of course, Mircea wouldn’t have known that he was free to go without his request to Faustus.

Regardless, with their next task in mind, the party headed to the Bureau of Transportation. The staff chased off Tangie for some inscrutable reason likely related to their unsanctioned travel between the planes but allowed the party passage to cosmically-nearby Stygia.

If Cania was cold, Stygia was freezing. Even the small port where the adventurers appeared did not have an ounce of the protection Mephistar offered since humanoid visitors were so rare in Stygia as to be impossible. Their arrival drew the attention of a devil name Salome who explained to them that their only hope of traversing the icy wastes of the plane was chartering the use of a ship. Seafaring vessels - like her own *Satisfaction* - in Stygia were designed so that their keels melted the ice in a small area, allowing travel at a much faster rate than walking. Salome herself was willing to take the party on so long as she could take a cut of any valuables they found in their travels. When the party agreed, she shared what should could about the plane with them.

Levistus had been long sealed in his prison and his plane had fractured into spatial incoherence but he remained its archdux. If they wanted, they could search for the archdux themself and make their petition to them. Their other option was Lohengrin Torunn, Levistus’ foremost warlock, who could be found by simply sailing Stygia’s seas for long enough. Figuring that Lohengrin was the safer bet, the party took up positions in Salome’s crew and set off.

After some time, a castle of ice became visible on the horizon. Salome called it Frostfound and it had an immediate similarity to the Fortress of Memories for those who had traveled to the Shadowfel. It, too, held memories, though no one could say to whom Frostfound’s belonged. The party would need to sleep before they arrived at the castle but, while his companions slept, it seemed that Mircea would get no rest as he saw the form of Ezmerelda waiting for him on the prow of *Satisfaction*.

Next
[Session 42 - Frostfound](Session%2042%20-%20Frostfound.md)