---
date: 2021-03-16
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 21
Apollo left the restaurant not long after the conclusion of the meal, coming across a strange scene as he did so. A cambion and her companion were being retained for refusing to pay their bill, with the cambion confidently stating that she would be using her soon-to-be-made winnings from the tournament to cover the cost. Her companion tried to convince her otherwise with little luck.

The rest of the party followed suit, with Daaé attempting to sneak off to surreptitiously purchase a birthday gift for Mircea who had belatedly realized that his birthday must have recently passed during the evening's conversation. Unfortunately, Mircea wanted to accompany them when their cover story indicated that they would be going to purchase some books, prompting them to reveal their intentions. They gifted him with a set of knitting needles and materials, hoping that he might find the hobby a useful way to pass the time that the other members of the group spent sleeping.

Those who had experienced dreams the prior night had a recurrence of each, though Nox and Mircea were not contacted again by their visitors. Upon returning to Belial's in the morning, the four noticed that an addition had been made to the stage that oversaw the game tables - a small throne had been installed in response to the Archdux's arrival the day before. Nox and Apollo's match was to take place today and they were surprised to find that the two individuals Apollo had seen at the restaurant were their opponents. The cambion introduced herself as Percy and her companion as Orias and said some strange things that indicated that they were both denizens of not simply another plane but another world.

As had been the case with their qualifying matches, their opponents proved more difficult than the last, but Apollo and Nox were able to emerge as the victors once again. Percy seemed to take this in stride, saying that she could simply skip town to avoid the collection of the debt she owed. Apollodorus and Artemidorus likewise won their match against Agares and their partner, which they reluctantly admitted when questioned in the competitor's lounge. Daaé was surprised to note that they had been speaking to Judy prior to the party's interruption. She explained that she and Punch had entered the competition and hoped to speak to the party later on in their quarters.

Without any other pressing engagements, the party agreed. Upstairs in their rooms, Judy and Punch elaborated on their presence in Phlegethos. Were they to win the tournament, they intended to ask Fierna to act as the patron of their small troupe. Until then, however, they were gathered information about the Fivefold Queen in the hopes of finding worthy material for a production, hence their discussion with Agares. Daaé questioned them about Maia Abbas and they readily shared what they had learned. Abbas was an air genasi from the small town of Tindalsea. Aside from their status as the wielder of Dragon's Breath, they carried a chalice which piqued the interest of the party, though Punch and Judy knew little about it. Abbas was eventually killed in a duel and Dragon's Breath presumably returned to the Fivefold Queen's hoard. Interestingly, the imps were uncertain if Abbas was a follower of the Fivefold Queen or if he was, like Apollo, an outsider gifted with the sword for some inscrutable purpose.

The next day, Daaé and Mircea went up against Judy and Punch. The playwrights were no match for Daaé and Mircea, who won handily but promised to put in a good word for the imps if they won the audience with Fierna. The imps took their loss relatively well and went on their way to continue their research. The other winners of the day were a pair of abishai named Shiro and Kuro, who would serve as Mircea and Daaé's opponents in their semifinal match.

As the party returned to Luck's Luxury, they were intercepted by the Master of Ceremonies bearing the news that their presence would be required that evening at a public event with their fellow semifinalists in the gala hall of Belial's. Given the reclusive nature of half of the party, they were not pleased to receive this news but there was nothing they could do to avoid attending.

Remembering the reception of their fine clothes at Fairfax's party, Apollo and Nox went out onto the streets of Los Caeli to find suitable garments for the party. Apollo noticed that they were being tailed by someone but he was able to lose them by taking a needlessly circuitous route around the city. Back at Luck's Luxury, Daaé realized that they might be able to glean something about the circumstances during which Shrike's mysterious chalice was last used using an ability they had recently received from the Raven Queen. Touching the chalice flooded their senses with a memory of standing on the banks of the Lethe and the taste of something bitter lingered in their mouth. They concluded that the chalice had been used to consume the silt from the river that washed away Shrike's memory, which unfortunately revealed little that they did not already know.

Next
[Session 22 - Seen and Unseen](Session%2022%20-%20Seen%20and%20Unseen.md)