---
date: 2023-09-27
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 60

By comparison, the remainder of their travel to their destination was an uneventful affair. The flat wastelands of Avernus were dotted with artefacts of battle: desolate buildings and broken war machines. Such a scar of violence carved across the plane, one that would unnerve even the bravest of men, was made more eerie by the complete absence of bodies, for the dead all returned to the mighty Styx where they would be dredged again for the interminable conflict.

On the banks of that very river the lich Virgil stood. He turned to greet the party before they had the chance to introduce themselves and asked what he could do for them. Mircea said that he had come because he owed Virgil a favour - or rather that he will owe Virgil a favour. Soon, Mircea's soul will be cast down into the river by the Morninglord and Virgil will fish him out, and Mircea believed that all along he himself had been the catalyst of that decision. Virgil listened patiently before asking why he should play along. Mircea said that he already had.

Nox, however, put forward a more compelling argument. The future Virgil was the one who allowed the party to use the Infernal Machine to move through time in exchange for their agreement to perform a task for him in Nessus. Evidently, whatever it was they were to do for him there was worth a much greater boon in the future. Virgil was willing to accept this premise, particularly since Nox had his familiar Beatrice with him, and agreed he would rescue Mircea so long as the party kept their word to him in the future.

As a bonus he would even tell them the nature of the task that he wanted them to undertake. The soul of a man named Dante Meliamne was in the personal possession of the Liege of the Nine. The party needed only to return the soul to Virgil, a simple task in comparison to dethroning the god Itself, which they were, apparently, already intending to do.

The party turned to depart but Virgil forestalled them by asking if their arrival had anything to do with the pollution he had observed in the waters of the Styx. A steady but dilute stream of ichor had been coming down from upriver, lately turning blacker and blacker and carrying chunks of flesh. Although they had not known, it was clear to the party that this was evidence of Şenkă's machinations. Virgil suspected that a sibriex - a creature that could create seirim by the thousands - was at work. Using the surface of the river as a focus, he was able to show the party the gory scene.

Far to the south lay Crucifixion Hill, where Zariel had famously slain her angelic compatriots; in the glimpse Virgil afforded them the party saw thousands of seirim nesting in the hills at the foot of a mountainous mass of flesh that could only be the sibriex and, for the first time, Apollo, Nox, and Marica saw Şenkă, who was instantly recognizable by his subtle but present resemblance to Mircea. None of this surprised them. It was the person to whom Şenkă was speaking in the vision that shocked them: the angel Fomalhaut in their disguise as Cassiopeia.

The party could not guess at their intentions, as they had been told by Cassiopeia that they needed the party's aid to reach Avernus, yet here they were on the plane treating with the enemies of life itself. However curious they might have been about the matter, their primary goal was sabotaging Şenkă's invasion.

Jezebel concluded that if they were up against the numbers that the scrying suggested they were, they should seek the assistance of a proper fighting force. Zariel's army was the natural choice but with their fresh losses and the fact that their knowledge of the timeline suggested they had not participated in any such battle, the wardens and worshippers of the Fivefold Queen were their only hope. Fortunately for them, popular understanding of the gods held that they did not experience time in the way mortals did and so they might make use of the Fivefold Queen's vested interest in Apollo to propitiate It for aid.

Fittingly, Quintestra took five days to reach overland. On the party's first visit to the fortress they had been required to climb the massive chains that bound it to the earth by hand but now in the fullness of their power they were able to easily fly up to Quintestra. In actuality, the matter was not so simple: one of the paladins guarding the prison attacked them midair with a slew of hellfire under the presumption that they were enemies. Apollo momentarily lost his ability to hold the fly spell together, sending all the other members of the group - excepting Nox, who had cast a spell of his own, and Mircea, who was instead knocked from his steed - into freefall. Thanks to the quick thinking and quick action of Nox and Jezebel, they were able to reapply the spell to everyone, allowing Apollo to focus on catching himself. After a quick detour to retrieve Mircea, the party made a diplomatic overture to the fortress in Zariel's colours. The paladin gestured for them to land and, after some convincing, agreed to allow them entrance to Quintestra.

Nox summarized the reason for their visit, which led to the paladin bringing them to their leader, Lilith, directly. Unlike her subordinate, she did not waste time questioning the party's motives, instead launching into a discussion of military mobilization. The soldiers on-hand at Quintestra were numbered perhaps a hundred, just enough to keep the seirim at bay, and although she was willing to help the party, a hundred alone would not be able to break the seirimic forces. If they had more time, she could contact the Queen's supplicants and allies across the planes, but allowing the sibriex to continue producing countless seirim in that time would only harm their odds.

While Lilith and the rest of the party began to draw up battle plans, Apollo requested an audience with the Fivefold Queen, calling on his right as wielder of Dragon's Breath. Lilith was surprised by this but, of course, he was not denied and he descended once more into the lightless depths of Quintestra to stand before the great dragon. The Fivefold Queen welcomed him, confirming that It knew him when It asked if Its gift had been found useful in his adventure. Apollo admitted that it had brought both advantages and detriments, chief of which was the murderous abishai who had tried to take it from him.

On that subject, Apollo recounted his recent efforts to gather evidence that would make his ownership of the sword indisputable before the courts of Maladomini and asked that the Fivefold Queen serve as a witness for the defence. The Fivefold Queen was willing to help him so long as Apollo promised that he would return to Quintestra and give due consideration to releasing It from its chains. Apollo was surprised by this request, as he was not aware that he had the capability to release It. The Fivefold Queen did not explain in full but said that Dragon's Breath served as the key to Its prison.

Apollo clarified that It was not asking for him to release it, only to think about it. The Fivefold Queen confirmed this, smiling all the while. Apollo agreed and then discussed the problem of the sibriex. Of course, the Queen was more than willing to lend aid to Zariel in their time of need and even offered to personally act on the matter if Apollo freed it, but Apollo was not certain he wanted to do so. The Fivefold Queen did not press him further and agreed instead to summon forth the legions of the faithful to meet them at the site of battle. With matters settled, Apollo returned to his compatriots with the news, both good and ill.

Next
[[Session 61 & 62 - At The Mountain of Creation]]