---
date: 2022-04-05
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 36

As a true names could not be used against a devil unless it was given by that devil, the party concluded that there was a reasonable chance that true names were collected during prisoner intake. Thus, they returned to Apollodorus’ office to request the information from her. She raised an eyebrow at their request, repeating what Apollo had mentioned about the name itself not being of much use, but when they explained that it was to be used in service of Glasya, she agreed to provide them with the name.

On their way to retrieve Solomon’s name, Marica sensed something was amiss. The air brushed past her in a rush that suggested someone was passing invisibly through the hallway. She moved to intercept, landing a successful hit on the intruder and revealing that they were an orthon. Given what they had overheard of Halidor’s plans, they assumed that this assassin was likely sent after Solomon. Though he served no further direct purpose to the party at this juncture, they felt enough obligation in their promise to him that they decided to foil the assassin’s plans. The orthon’s talents lay in the element of surprise, which they had lost, and as such the party was able to take them down without too much fuss. After the battle, Marica searched the body for anything of interest, finding only a blue rose.

Having conveniently “not noticed” the scuffle going on behind her and consulted her files while the party was occupied, Apollodorus was able to give them Solomon’s name shortly after: Pleiades. With two out of three answers in their possession, the party turned to confirming the precise nature of Halidor’s greatest investment. The financial trail Nox and Marica had uncovered led to the Kintsugi theatre and they surmised that it would be there that they would be able to confirm their third answer. Under the pretense of seeking to restage the play, the party spoke with the artistic director Naberius on the matter. He politely informed them that not only did they have exclusivity rights to The Witch’s Heart, but they were opening a revival of the performance in only a few days.

Having two days unoccupied in the city, the party took the opportunity to relax. Nox traveled to Phlegethos to at last pick up the armour he had commissioned some time ago. As he did so, he was contacted by Virgil, who had decided to call in his favour from the party. He only gave vague details of his proposal but it was clear that he wanted to party to retrieve someone being held on the plane of Nessus, indicating that he would provide a full explanation at a later date. Back on Malbolge, Mircea helped Judy and Punch put the finishing touches on their props while Apollo availed himself of the library to look into the nature of his strange dreams of Maia Abbas. He found a book detailing the existence of a plane known as Gleam, supposedly where dreams originated. Marica, for her part, simply enjoyed having an uninterrupted stretch of time where she could rest.

On opening night, the party attended the performance of The Witch’s Heart. Both Halidor and Glasya (accompanied by her warlock Apollodorus) were in attendance, which drew their notice. The Witch’s Heart was the tragic tale of the archdux Malaphas - the hag who had presided over Malbolge prior to Glasya’s instatement as archdux by their parent. Its mere content made it a seditious piece and its overwrought and indulgent writing suggested that it was indeed a passion project that would qualify it for their final security question.

As soon as they could, the party returned to Caim. He was in the midst of preparing everything to be moved into Halidor’s, almost as though he already knew the party had learned everything they needed to, and was pleased to hear that the party was ready to enact his heist. With a flick of the wrist, he transfigured them into devils, with Nox getting the role of Halidor. Infiltrating the Bureau of Property was a nerve-wracking affair throughout, aided by tactics that were clearly intended to make prospective thieves lose their confidence. However, the party’s acting, Caim’s disguises, and the answers to the three security questions held against the Bureau’s scrutiny, granting them access to Halidor’s lockbox. Curiously, a key could be found alongside the deed to Halidor’s but Nox decided it was unwise to press his luck by taking it.

Once they were clear of the building, they returned to Fool’s Hope and provided Caim with the deed. Calanthir had performed a simultaneous theft at the building itself, meaning that he had both copies of the deed to use to transfer ownership to himself. He thanked them profusely for their help before disappearing right before the party’s eyes.

Having done as the archdux asked, the party returned to golden Proscenium to speak with Glasya. They admitted to being impressed with their work and sought to hire them on as their agents. The thing about being archdux, they explained, was that there were certain things they could not do openly, fomenting revolution amongst her fellow archduxes being chief among them. The party, however, were not only not devils and thus not limited by certain dicta of the Liege of the Nine, but they were evidently people could would benefit from a new god on the throne of the Nine Hells. She would compensate them for their work with the fulfillment of their greatest desires, something which each of them established with her with varying degrees of reluctance. Mircea sought reunion with his wife and child, Marica wanted immortality without the stasis she had seen in her mother’s lichdom, and Nox wanted a godhood of his own. Apollo was the lone member of the group whose wish for reknown could simply be accomplished by the act of assisting Glasya itself. As such, the four found themselves in the service of the fledgling god of the Nine...

Next
[Session 37 - The Ruins of Kintyre](Session%2037%20-%20The%20Ruins%20of%20Kintyre.md)