---
date: 2022-11-02
tags:
  - recap
  - recap/ne
---
# Session 47

In the privacy of the garden, the party began to realize that their proposal of sacrificing Titivilus’ ambition was a monumental one. Their understanding of the matter was that they would need to potentially capture him and transport him to the Chapel in Stygia in order for Lohengrin to perform the ritual they’d outlined. Killing him would be difficult enough but the need to keep him alive posed a number of additional challenges. They considered trying to catch up with Faustus and Lohengrin but thought better of interrupting them. On top of that, they needed rest and so decided to retire to their rooms.

Nox, however, intended to speak with Lohengrin before the night was through. He had lingering concerns over Iz’s very clear statement that they were not to allow Lohengrin to leave Stygia lest they resign themselves to never getting them to return. He went to their rooms - noting that they were much more grand than the party’s combined - and began trying to broach the subject gently.

Unfortunately, Lohengrin managed to offend Nox with what they had thought of as nothing more than a bit of a jab at his obsequiousness. Nox responded by disintegrating the couch beneath them and Lohengrin reacted to this. very badly. They drew arms and accused Nox of being an assassin. He fled, managing to reach the party’s apartments and his room before Lohengrin could do more than hit him with a few spells. Although they were not particularly sympathetic to Nox getting himself into trouble yet again, they did come to his defence. Apollo put a wall of force over his door and countered Lohengrin’s spells, effectively ending the battle and giving everyone else a chance to talk Lohengrin down. Apollo had almost managed it when Nox chimed in and undid all his progress, causing the conflict to heat up once again.

The commotion had summoned the attention of a small force of guards, headed by Staufen. He asked the party and Lohengrin for an explanation and, upon hearing what was going on, immediately delegated the task of solving their dispute to someone who had actual negotiation skills. The group was escorted to a small room that was used for mediation and met with the armoured person they had seen attending Faustus during their last visit to Cania. He introduced himself as Brin and did his best to de-escalate the situation. He was able to, thanks to zone of truth, convince Lohengrin that Nox had no intention of harming them and extract apologies from them both. Once the matter was resolved, he personally escorted Lohengrin back to their rooms, leaving the party time to discuss the matter themselves (ie. drag Nox).

Nox privately objected to the preferential treatment given to Lohengrin and still seemed mostly unrepentant about what had happened but he did apologize to the party for dragging them into it. As far as they could tell, he was sincere about it, which was uncommon for Nox. Of course, Nox hadn’t managed to accomplish what he had set out to do by talking to Lohengrin but the party decided to put that on the back burner in favour of finalizing their plan for Titivilus.

All members of the party felt that seeking the assistance of Princeps Astaroth upon their arrival in Dis would afford them their best chance at Titivilus but their last visit to Dis indicated that they would not be able to travel openly. Given that they were in the epicenter of magical research in the Nine Hells, they were confident they could find some spell they would disguise them until they could reach Astaroth. They would need, too, to clarify what was needed for the ritual. For both things, Marica and Mircea went to speak with Faustus while Nox and a sleepy Apollo worked at figuring out where the rest of the tuning forks they’d picked up on *Compass Rose* led.

In the library, Marica was pulled aside by Lohengrin, who asked her what she knew about Faustus. She and Mircea, who had the benefit of having known him for years, gave their general impressions of him (which were primarily that he was the most annoying guy in existence). Lohengrin thanked them for their input. In turn, they asked them what exactly they needed from Titivilus. Lohengrin clarified that the ritual was only originally suggested because they would be using regrets, which were predicated on past events. They gave Marica a small pearl from their earrings and said that it would be able to capture the moment that they destroyed Titivilus’ ambition and then could be returned to them. Then, Lohengrin departed. Both thought this encounter was strange, though not enough to remark on.

Faustus suggested a few ways to circumvent measures that would detect magical disguises. The Bureaus of Transportation had security measures, of course, but they would be primarily focused on illusion spells rather than true alterations of the body. Gamelat could point them toward modified alter self spells or they could attempt to use an edited scroll of mass polymorph that would let them maintain humanoid shapes. They chose to try to scrolls themselves and, after one false start that required them to go back to Faustus to request another scroll, managed to transform themselves.

Amusingly both Marica and Apollo used their parent’s appearances, while Nox turned into Tangie. Mircea surprised them all by taking on the appearance of the famous ancient wizard Mordenkainen whom he identified as simply a mad wizard who lived on Mount Baratok in Barovia. The party worried that such a high-profile person might draw attention to them but they weren’t going to ask the duke consort for a third scroll, so they simply hoped that the devils on the other side of the transportation circle were too intimidated to ask questions. To the party’s surprise, this spell extended to Onyx, who chose a fairly unremarkable human form to follow them around in for a while.

Having no other preparations to make, the party made their way to Cania’s teleportation array and headed to Dis, where their disguises would be put to the test.

Next
[Session 48 - Flames of Ambition](Session%2048%20-%20Flames%20of%20Ambition.md)